 Rockefeller only had standard oil. Never made another investment in anything. Fabulously wealthy. Carnegie, Andrew Carnegie, same thing. If he just had Carnegie steel, in fact, I think he's the one that really put this idea and planted this idea in the first part in my mind, because if you look at Carnegie's early life, he's doing all kinds of stuff. He's making investments, he's building bridges, he's looking for the best opportunity. He's already pretty rich, not nearly as wealthy as he's going to be, but once he did something fascinating, once he realized, oh shit, steel is by far the highest, like the best opportunity I'm ever going to have. Now he sells off all other businesses. He sells off all his stock, because he didn't want to be distracted. He didn't want to wake up in the morning and read the newspaper and want to know what his stocks for during that day. So he sold it all off and only focused on Carnegie steel and what happens. He sells Carnegie steel to JP Morgan at the time and he does it for cash, straight cash. At the time that he gets, he sells it after he sells it to JP Morgan, he has the largest liquid fortune in the world at that time. So again, only needed one business. Sam Walton in his autobiography says, I didn't do much investing outside of Walmart. Again, if he only owned Walmart, that's all he needs. So I, you just see it's over and over and over and over again. It's obvious in history of entrepreneurship, but it's not, to Charlie's point, it's not definitely not conventional wisdom and it's definitely not practice and taught. And then I love this observation about Disney from Charlie Munger. And so he's constantly, again, thinking about, hey, you have to have a multidisciplinary view and approach to the world. And so he talks about this term from chemistry that I had to look up. So it's pronounced auto-catalysis. And so what that means is it is a reaction where a product itself acts as a catalyst for the reaction. So this is something you and I've talked about over and over again. You see example after example in biography and the way I described in passes, like you really should try to stay in the game long enough to get lucky. And he talks about Disney and then Coca-Cola. And he's giving this talk and he's asking this question on Disney. And he says they had all these movies in the can. So movies they own for decades, right? The value of those movies could not be collected until many, many decades in the future where there is an invention of a technology not made by Disney that greatly appreciates the assets it has. This is incredible. So it says they had all these movies in the can and then he used the same example that there was another auto-catalic, I don't know how to pronounce that, auto-catalytic reaction with Coca-Cola too, that Coca-Cola greatly prospered because Coca-Cola was invented and they could prosper even to a greater degree when refrigeration became widespread. In Disney case, they had all these movies in the can and then the video cassette was invented and then obviously then you have the DVD and then you have streaming. So it's just, this keeps happening. So it says when the video cassette was invented, Disney didn't have to invent anything or do anything except take the thing out of the can and stick it on the cassette. So Disney got this enormous tailwind from life and it was billions and billions of dollars worth of tailwind and in other words, they stayed in the game long enough to get lucky. All you have to do is sit there while the world carries you forward. And so he uses the example of the movie, The Lion King, The Lion King alone. Meaning this reaction is gonna continue on many decades in the future because highly likely that 20 years from now, 30 years from now, people are still gonna be watching movies like The Lion King. The Lion King alone is gonna do plural billions. And by the way, when I say when it's done, meaning when The Lion King is done, I mean, 50 years from now or something. But plural billions from one movie so that idea of auto-catalysis. There's another example in the conversation that Charlie and John Callison have where John asked them about why for many, many decades, the railroads were terrible, terrible investments. I'm talking about when they first were created, it was really hard to make a profitable, like there's a lot of people like stealing money from railroads if you could go back and study that time period. But it was very hard to invest in them and have a reliable source of profits for a long period of time. And yet that all changed with the invention of the shipping container. And the shipping container was invented by Malcolm McLean and was invented in the 1950s. So a hundred years after the invention of this transcontinental railroad that was taking place in America. And now all of a sudden, Charlie talks about it in this conversation where it's like, well, once you could stack two shipping containers on top of each other and put on a railroad, it makes it way more efficient than anybody else or than anything else rather than any way to move goods and supplies across the country. The combination of the railroads and the shipping containers is another example of this autocatalic reaction just like the invention of the video cassette and the DVD and streaming has been for Disney. And then there's a meta lesson from Charlie and it's really how to teach a lesson. And then he learned this lesson by reading between the lines of a lesson that his father was trying to teach him. But I think he would argue against being, I think Charlie Munger would argue against being overly prescriptive. And this also ties together with another thing which is Charlie's clear predilection to going for great to like just being around great people and great businesses. They just produce a lot less problems. And so his father was, had his own law practice in Omaha and Charlie has got to know some of his father's clients and got to you know, essentially be, have these conversations with his father, learn a law from his father. And so this is something he learned and again, meta lesson is how to teach a lesson and why you want to go for great. Here's another model for my father's law practice. When I was very young, one of his best friends was this guy named Grant McFadden. He owned a bunch of four dealerships. He was a perfectly marvelous man. He was self-made and he made his own way in the world. He was a brilliant man of enormous charm and integrity, just a wonderful, wonderful man. In contrast, my father had another client who was a blowhard, an overreaching unfair pompous, difficult man. And I must have been 14 years old when I asked my dad, why do you do so much work for Mr. X? This overreaching blowhard instead of working more for a wonderful man like your friend, Grant McFadden. My father said, Gram McFadden treats his employees right, his customers' right and his problems right. And if he gets involved with a psychotic, he quickly walks away and works out an exit as fast as he can. Therefore, Gram McFadden doesn't have enough law business to keep you going. Wisdom is prevention. He prevents the problems. The lawyers are hired to fix the problems. But Mr. X is a walking mind field of wonderful legal business. This case demonstrates one of the troubles with practicing law. This is now Charlie speaking. To consider what extent you're going to be dealing with grossly defective people. They create an enormous amount of law business. And even when your own client is a paragon of virtue, you'll often be dealing with gross defectives on the other side. Like Ben Franklin observed, it's hard for an empty sack to stand upright. I'd argue that my father's model, when I asked him about the two clients, was totally correct. He taught me the right lesson, the lesson, run your own life like Grant McFadden. That was a great lesson. And he taught it in a very clever way. Because a set of just pounding it in, he told it to me in a way that required a slight mental reach. I had to make the reach myself in order to get the idea that I should behave like Grant McFadden. And because I had to reach for it, I held it better. And indeed, I've held it all the way through until today, through all of these decades. That is a very, very clever teaching method. Warren and Charlie, they talk about over and over again, that they're teachers. In the conversation with John Carlson, he talks about the benefit of their teaching. He says the fact that him and Warren have enjoyed the public likes that they had, they've enjoyed the education, he called it an educational side show. The educational side show that we do. He says it's constructive. And he feels that learning all this stuff and then turning it on the media, they teaching other people is a win-win. And I love the advice that he gives in that conversation. It's very simple. Make yourself very useful. Charlie and Warren have made themselves unbelievably useful to generations of entrepreneurs and investors. He talks about why this is important. First of all, Charlie said one of the best things Charlie ever said is that, the best thing a human being can do is help another human being no more. And so he's asked the question, like, are you fulfilling your responsibility, share the wisdom that you've required over the years? And if you pay attention to what he's about to say, it's like, oh, this desire to do this is one, it's like a positive for the world. It's like a moral duty to do this. It's good for other people, but it's like built into the foundation of their business. He goes, sure, look at, look at Berkshire Hathaway. I called the ultimate didactic enterprise. Warren's never gonna spend any of his money. He's gonna give it all back to society. He's just building a platform so people will listen to his notions. Neither to say they're very good notions. And the platform's not so bad either. You could argue that Warren and I are academics in our own way. He continues this theme. I'm passionate about wisdom. Perhaps I have some streak of generosity in my nature and desire to serve values that transcend my brief life. That sentence sits even harder because he just passed away. But maybe I'm here just to show off. Who knows? I believe in the discipline of mastering the best that other people have figured out. I don't believe in just sitting down and trying to dream it up all yourself. Nobody's that smart. I owe a lot to these long dead predecessors. What is he saying? I've benefited so much that somebody that engaged in lifetime learning and then catalog what they learned and send it down to the next generations. Why am I not doing the same thing? I should do the same thing. I am doing the same thing is what he's telling us. I owe a lot to these long dead predecessors. And if you like poor Charlie's Omni, X so do you. And I wanna tie that idea together with something else that is discussed in the book. It's like not only sharing everything that you learn that you know is good, but also the importance of removing which you feel is an erroneous or a bad idea from the heads of other people. And in some cases, in business cases, like you can create a ton of real financial value for other people. This story he's about to tell us is how Warren Buffett created a billion dollars of value for the Washington Post shareholders. And it was this spreading that Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger, if you read the shareholder letters, you hear them talk, they rail against this thing that got spread through academic institutions in the business schools all over the world. It's a fish and market theory. And so his point was that if you adopted the hard form of a fish and market theory, then you logically derived. He's saying you got a bad idea in your head. And then if you believe that bad idea to be true, then it's logical what comes next. So his point is like we're trying to remove that bad idea. So you don't do that you don't think it's true and then logically keep adjusting your behavior based on that false conclusion. So he's like listen, if you believed, if you adopted the hard form of a fish and market theory, then you would think that share buybacks or the stupidest thing ever. Okay, so I'm gonna get into that. So you would logically derive consequences from this wrong theory. You would get conclusions such as it can never be correct for any corporation to buy its own stock. Because the stock price by definition is totally efficient. There could never be an advantage. And they taught this theory to some partner at McKinsey when he was at some school of business and he adopted this crazy line of reasoning. This is a real story by the way. And he adopted this crazy line of reasoning from economics and the partner, this guy, became a paid consultant for the Washington Post. And the Washington Post stock was selling at a fifth of what an orangutan could figure out was the plane value per share by just counting up the values and dividing. But he so believed what he had been taught in graduate school that he advised the Washington Post who was paying him for this advice. This is crazy, that it shouldn't buy its own stock. Well, fortunately, they put Warren Buffett on the board and he convinced them to buy back more than half of the outstanding stock, which enriched the remaining shareholders by much more than a billion dollars. And that's one of the great things about what you and I are doing. This isn't, yeah, it's fun learning these things. I'm obsessed with these stories. You probably are too. But there is real economic benefit to doing this. It's like this, it's unbelievable. It could be fun and enrich yourself and your loved ones and your partners and your friends. Another story that I love that Charlie has is about something a Harvard Business School professor did many, many decades ago. And he tells us this story to illustrate the need for more multi-disciplinary education and training. And that if you just focus on business, you're just gonna, it's like the, with the person with the hammer, everything looks like a nail. And so you're only gonna use business, stuff you learn in business school to solve business problems. He's like, then you're gonna lose to people that are more multi-disciplinary. And this is a great illustration of how mastering the big ideas and other domains can actually benefit the way you think about these business opportunities. So this professor from Harvard Business School just happened a couple decades before he's telling a story. Gave a test involving two unwirldly, that's really important. There's two words I want you to remember here. This professor gave a test involving two unwirldly old ladies who had just inherited a new England shoe factory that made shoes and was beset with serious business problems that were described in great detail on this test. Okay, the two words in those sentences, in that first sentence, it's really important. Is there unwirldly? And they just inherited the shoe factory. They did not build it, they did not manage it. They were unwirldly and they didn't inherit it. The professor then gave the students ample time to answer with written advice to the old ladies. In response to the answers, the professor gave every student an undesirable grade except for one student who was graded at the top by a wide margin. What was the winning answer? It was very short and roughly as follows. This business field and this particular business in its particular location present crucial problems that are so difficult that unwirldly old ladies cannot wisely try to solve them through hired help. Given the difficulties and unavoidable agency costs, the old ladies should promptly sell the shoe factory, probably to the competitor who would enjoy the greatest marginal utility advantage. That is the end of the answer. This is Charlie describing why that was right. Thus, the winning answer relied not on what the students had most recently been taught in business school, but instead on more fundamental concepts, like agency costs and marginal utility lifted from undergraduate psychology and economics. One of my favorite quotes I've ever heard comes from the founder of Polaroid, Steve Jobs Hero, and the patron saint of Founders Podcasts, which is our beloved Edmund Land. And he said that optimism is a moral duty. In Charlie gave this commencement address at USC back in 2007, I think. Full talk, it's like almost 40 minutes long, it's on YouTube. Obviously the edited transcript is in the book as well. And Charlie's going to add something to Edmund Land in the sense of what else is a moral duty. And he believes that the acquisition of wisdom is a moral duty. And then once you acquire it, you always see pass it on. And so he starts to talk like, why am I this old man up here, lecturing you or trying to tell you something on the day of your graduation? He says the sacrifices and the wisdom and the value transfer that come from one generation to the next should always be appreciated. He's constantly quoting and crediting Confucius with teaching him that because it was very central tenant to Confucius's teachings. So there's a bunch of ideas in this talk that he wants to pass on to the next generation. I just want to pull a couple of them out. First is this idea that he learned when he was really young. And he says it's a very simple but powerful idea that the safest way to try to get what you want is to be deserving of what you want. In his personal life, he's like, well, do you want a good spouse? Then be the kind of person that could attract a good spouse. Be worthy of a good spouse. And then you will get a good spouse. Spouse, he says the same thing in business. You want to deliver it through the world which you would buy if you were on the other end. By and large, the people who have this ethos rise in life. The other people who rise in life are learning machines. So that's where he goes into the acquisition of wisdom is a moral duty. It's not just something you do to advance in life. It requires that you're hooked on lifetime learning. Without lifetime learning, you people are not going to do very well. You're not going to get very foreign life based on what you already know. And he uses Warren Buffett as an example. It's like there's a Berkshire, put up the greatest long term investment record in history of civilization. The skill that got Berkshire through one decade would not have survived to get it through the next decade. With comparable levels of achievement, Warren Buffett had to be a continuous learning machine. And the people that are learning machines, like that go to bed every night, a little wiser than they were that morning, they are the ones that rise in life. And especially he's talking to, you know, maybe let's say these people are, I think, graduate level students, probably maybe 24 years old, summer or 25 maybe. And his point is like if you do this habit of just accumulating a little bit more knowledge and adjusting your behavior accordingly, tiny bit every day, that makes a big difference because you have a long road ahead of you. Consider Warren Buffett again. If you watched him with a time clock, you'd find that about half of his waking time has spent reading. Then a big chunk of the rest of his time has spent talking one on one, either on the telephone or in person with highly gifted people whom he trusts and who trust him. And you wanna do this practice as much as you can for as long period of time. And so he gives the example that he learned from actually the famous basketball coach, John Wooden. When John Wooden was the coach of UCLA, he was probably the number one basketball coach in the world. And so what he does is he calls this maximizing non-egality, which is, I don't even know if that's a really memorable way to put it, but I like, I remember the story. I didn't remember that line, but the story I think would be memorable. And so what he did was just 12 people in a basketball team. He says to the bottom five players, hey, you're not gonna play in games, you're practice partners. And he did this because he wanted to maximize the amount of playing time and practice for his top seven players. So top seven players did almost all of the playing. Well, the top seven learned more because they were doing all the playing. And when he adopted this non-egalitarian system, Wooden won more games than he'd won before. This is the takeaway. I think the game of competitive life, often requires maximizing the experience of the people who have the most aptitude and the most determination as learning machines. If you want the very highest reaches of human achievement, that is where you have to go. You want to provide a lot of playing time for your best players. And something that your best players and you will have in common is that they're usually doing something, some of them would kind of drive. And I could do it for a long period of time. They've aligned their, what they're doing professionally, what they're doing for work, with their natural intense interests. One of my favorite things, the way I think about Charlie, what he taught me is that ask yourself, what are you intensely interested in? And then just do that for a living. Another thing that I found is that intense interest in any subject is indispensable if you're going to excel at it. You need to maneuver yourself into doing something in which you have an intense interest. And you want to combine that with working only, working only with people that you like, admire, and trust. People that you want to be like, that you trust, that you admire, do not, he says, do not, do not, just quit your job, maneuver yourself, especially in the beginning of your career. Try to work underneath, now he's talking about partners, but also the supplies to career advice. So try to work underneath the people that you actually admire and trust, and you want to be like, hopefully your partners like that too. And if they are, and you have this trust, it just, again, what did he say that was such a surprising statement? Trust is one of the greatest economic forces on earth. He's going to apply this to what, inside of the partnership that he had with Warren. And so he talks about the highest, one of the highest forms of civilization that one can reach. Is a seamless, non-bureaucratic web of deserved trust. Not much fancy procedure, just totally reliable people, correctly trusting one another. In your own life, you want to maximize is a seamless web of deserved trust. Charlie also has this great story that I think actually embedded in the story is really great advice. And he calls the story, the Persian messenger syndrome. And it's very common, he's observed it multiple times, that leaders of companies, as they get more successful, they tend to dislike hearing bad news, and you should actually do the opposite. And he talks about a Berkshire or that.