 Hey, tell us the bad news because the good news takes care of itself. And this is a, again, a well-known like psychological tendency that you see in human nature throughout history. The person's Persian messenger syndrome, ancient Persians actually killed some messengers who so fault was that they brought home truthful bad news. Like a bad, like they just lost a bad or something like that. It was actually safer for the messengers to run away and hide instead of doing his job as a wiser boss would have wanted it done. Persian messenger syndrome is alive and well in modern life. And he talks about when capital cities, slash ABC was competing against CBS. CBS was run by the founder. Bill Paley, and over time Bill Paley became hostile to people who brought him bad news. And so Charlie was like, well over time if you do that, you're on a living in a cocoon. And you're in a cocoon of unreality is what he called a cocoon of unreality. And so he says that Berkshire are the way they counteract this is they have a habit of welcoming bad news. There's a common injunction at Berkshire HQ always tell us the bad news promptly. It is only the good news that can wait. I noticed a, when I got to this section, I thought of something that I learned when I was reading the biography of the founder of UPS. This guy named Jim Casey. I covered this book a long time ago all the way back on the episode 192. And Jim Casey noticed this as well is like, well, he's running the company's got all these executives with these executives. The only people that have contact with them. They tend to give like a distortion of like a more favorable distortion of the reality on the ground. He's like, well, Jim Casey, how do I and how do I counteract this? And so what Jim would do is anytime he's driving his car, he would see a UPS truck. He would stop pull over and talk to the driver. He knew the drivers would tell them what they were experiencing. And many times what they would, what he would learn from drivers would be very different from what his executives, because his executive would tell him, because his executives were likely, were more likely, to tell him more positive but less accurate news. And so Charlie's advice to you and I is you want to avoid the Persian messenger syndrome. And then when you analyze why does this syndrome appear over and over again, it's like, well, what is the incentive? The Persian messengers that ran away instead of delivering bad news because they saw previous messengers deliver bad news and get killed or their hands chopped off, they were responding to incentives. And so one of the main things that Charlie repeats over and over again is he calls it the reward and punishment super response tendency. And I think it could be summarized in one sentence. The most important rule in management is get the incentives right. And this is why this is what he says. Almost everyone thinks that they fully recognize how important incentives and disincentives are for changing behavior, but this is not often so. I've been in the top 5% of my age cohort my entire life and understanding the power of incentives. Yet I've always underestimated that power. Never a year, power is insane sentence. Never a year passes that I don't get some surprise that pushes a little further my appreciation of incentive superpowers. He's saying I'm in the top 5% of my age cohort and every year, I'm still underestimating this thing. What do you think the other people that are in the bottom 95% are doing? One of my favorite cases about the power of incentives is the habit at federal express. Federal express system requires that all packages be shifted rapidly among airplanes in one central airport each night. I go into more detail on this on the episode that I did on the founder of FedEx, Fred Smith. I think it's episode 151. The system has no integrity for the customers if the night work shift cannot accomplish this assignment fast. Federal express had one hell of a time getting the night shift to do the right thing. They tried everything in the world without luck. And finally, somebody had the happy thought that was foolish to pay the night shift by the hour when what the employer wanted was not maximize billable hours of employee servitude. But fault-free rapid performance of a particular task. If they paid the employees per shift, this is what they decided to do. They went up paying the employees per shift and told them that once that you can go home once all the planes were loaded. And so before this, they could never hit the successful completion of this task on time. And suddenly, because the incentive structure changed, hey, do the job and go home, you could just pay by the job not by the hour. They went up doing a way faster and went up. And this is the first time that they actually got fault-free rapid performance of this particular task that was central to their business performance. This pops up again and again, he talks about the history of Xerox. One of the Xerox founders is Ganym Jo Wilson. He had a similar experience. He couldn't understand why it's new machine was selling so poorly in relation to its older and inferior machine. So then he goes and looks and he finds out that the commission arrangement with the salespeople at Xerox gave a large and perverse incentive to push the inferior machine on customers. So of course, if you're the salesperson and say, hey, I get $100 if I sell the old machine, or I get $50 if I sell the new machine, you're just going to... What you're doing is logical. It's the person at fault is the person that's designing the incentive structure. And so this is Charlie's solution. Never, ever think about something else when you should be thinking about the power of incentives. One thing you'll notice if you listen to Charlie talk or if you read a bunch of books about him, Buffett does this in the shareholders letters as well. Actually, let me read this from Buffett's shareholder letter. Buffett says the behavior of peer companies, whether they're expanding, acquiring, setting executive composition, composition, whatever will be mindlessly imitated. So he's saying the behavior of peer companies will be mindlessly imitated. And what they're both shocked at, Buffett also says that it always amazes him how high IQ people mindlessly imitate. So they talked about the benefit of social proof, especially usually social proof being enhanced by larger scale and then a lot of brand advertising marketing. But a form of social proof where it's actually negative. So that's obviously positive to a company. The negative part is that the social proof also leads to executives and CEOs and founders of companies mindlessly imitating other people around them. And so he talks about in the highest reaches of business, it's not uncommon to find leaders who display followership akin to that of teenagers. That is Charlie Munger's online. They're acting like teenagers just following anybody around them. And he talks about that this psychological tendency is very observable. And you see it usually start in like an industry. If one idea starts with one company industry, whether it's a good idea or bad idea, it'll be spread to other industries. So you use an example on the oil industry. If one oil company foolishly buys a mind, other oil companies often quickly join in buying minds. These oil company buying fads actually bloomed with terrible results. And he does a great job distilling down his main point here. If only one lesson is to be chosen from a package of lessons involving social proof tendency and used in self improvement, my favorite would be as follows. Learn how to ignore the example from others when they are wrong because few skills are more worth having. Learn how to ignore the examples from others when they are wrong because few skills are more worth having. He's got a great anecdote about this. This is how I really have remembered this story more than anything. And so Munger says one of my favorite stories is about the little boy in Texas. The teacher asked the class if there are nine sheep in the pen and one jumps out how many are left and everybody got the answer right except the little boy who said none of them are left. And the teacher said you don't understand arithmetic and he said no teacher you don't understand sheep. And I'll close here with a great anecdote about the importance of practice. Skills of a very high order can be maintained only with daily practice. A famous pianist once said that if you failed to practice for a single day, he could notice his performance deterioration and that after a week's gap in practice, the audience could notice it as well. That is a great way of illustrating that the public praises people for what they practice in private. The public praises people for what they practice in private. Keep reading, keep learning. It's what Charlie would have wanted. It's good for you. It's good for your family. It's good for your customers. It's good for your business and it is good for the world. That is where I will leave it. There is a million more ideas in this book. I believe it to be an indispensable part of your library. I think it's an absolute no-brainer to buy it. If you buy the book using the link that's in the show notes on your podcast player, you'll be supporting the podcast at the same time. I will also leave a link down below for the book, but also for the website that's straight-pressed did. You can get a copy of the digital version for free. I will also leave a link down below for the conversation, the incredible conversation that you do not want to miss with John callison and Charlie monger. It's one of the last, going to be one of the last unheard interviews that is released. That would be as available if you're if you're hearing these words now. It is already available. I will leave a link down below, but you can just go and search in your podcast player for investing the best and you will see the conversation with Charlie monger and John callison. That is 300 and 29 books down, 1000 to go. I'll talk to you again soon. Okay, so what you're about to hear is this question I was asked a few months ago. I actually recorded this a few months ago. They asked how did history's greatest entrepreneurs think about hiring and all the answers. People think I have a better memory than I then actually do. If people say, oh, David, you have a great memory. My wife would laugh at that. I forget things all the time. It's not to have a good memory. It's I reread things over and over and over again. Every single answer, every single reference you're about to hear in this 20 minute mini episode came from me searching. All of my notes and highlights. That option is now available to you. If you like what you hear, if you think it's valuable, if you're already running its successful company and you want an easy way to reference the ideas of history's greatest entrepreneurs in a searchable database that you can go through at your convenience anytime you want, then you go to foundersnotes.com and sign up. I want to start out first with why this is so important. There's actually this book that came out in like 1997. It's called In The Company of Giants. I think it's episode 208 of Founders. It's two Stanford MBA students if I remember correctly. And they're interviewing a bunch of technology company founders. And in their Steve Jobs is one of them. This is, you know, right, I think even before he came back to Apple. And they were talking about, well, yeah, we know it's important to hire, but in a typical startup, a manager or a founder may not always have time to spend recruiting other people. And I first read this, Steve's answer to this, you know, I don't know, two years ago. And I never forgot it. I think it's excellent. I think it sets up why this question is so important. And you should really be spending, especially in the early days, like basically all your time doing this. In a typical startup manager, you not always have the time to spend recruiting other people. Then Steve comes in. I disagree totally. I think it's the most important job. Assume you're by yourself in a startup and you want a partner. You take a lot of time finding a partner, right? He would be half of your company. I'm going to pause there. This idea of looking at each new hire as a percentage of the company is genius. Why should you take any less time finding a third or a fourth of your company or a fifth of your company? When you're in a startup, the first 10 people will determine whether the company succeeds or not. Each is 10% of the company. So why wouldn't you take as much time as necessary to find all a players? If three, three of the 10, we're not so great. Why would you start a company where 30% of your people are not so great? A small company depends on great people much more than a big company does. To answer this question, the advantage that I have making founders and that you have as a bi-partitive listening to founders is not only that I've read 300-something biographies of entrepreneurs now, but I have all of my notes and highlights stored in my read-wise app. That means I can search for any topic I can look at the past highlights of books or I can search for keywords. What I did is, first of all, what I've started to do with these AMA questions is I read them, decide which ones I'm going to do next and then think about it for a few days. I don't put any, I just literally, that I know that's the next question, just let my brain work on it in the background for a few days, and then I'll go through and start searching all my notes. That's what I did here. There's a bunch of, you know, I don't have, I might have like 10 or 15 different founders talking about hiring. The first idea is the most obvious, but I think probably works best when you're already established. So Steve Jobs is talking about, hey, you know, great way to hire is just fine, great work, and find the people that did that and then try to hire them. When you're Steve Jobs, that's a lot easier, right? Then if you're just somebody that doesn't have a reputation, maybe you don't have resources, maybe your company's rather new or not as well known. David Ogovie, I just did confessions of an advertising man a couple episodes ago, I think 306 or something like that, 307. And he did the same thing, but he's David Ogovie at that point. So he would find, he'd go through magazines, find great advertising, great copywriting, and he'd write the personal letter, and then set up a phone call. And he says he wouldn't, he was so well known, and you know, he's one of the best in his field, that he wouldn't even have to offer a job, just the conversation, then the person would, he would want to hire the person, never mention it, and the person would apply to him. And so again, I think if you can do that, then of course, it's straightforward. Find for somebody who does great work. Usually you can do this, I actually have a friend that I can't say who it is. He's doing this right now, actually. I have a friend that's really good at doing this. He's finding people that do great stuff on the internet and then just cold, cold DMing them and then getting convincing them to work on things. And that usually works, especially with people like younger people early in the career. There's a bunch of different ways to think about this in a bunch of different ways to prioritize. So the first thing that came to mind, that I found surprising is you read any biography on Rockefeller, and he had a couple ideas where he felt the optimization, you know, table stakes that you're intelligent and you're driven and you're hardworking, right? We don't even have, like if you're listening to this, you already know that. But he prioritized hiring people with social skills. And so this is what he said. The ability to deal with people is as purchasable a commodity as sugar or coffee. And I pay for, I pay more for that ability than any other under the sun. There's the two, the second part to this though. And this is also works well if you have access to more resources. He Rockefeller would hire people as he found as he found talented people, not as he needed them. It's not like, okay, standard oil has six open spots. Let's go find six candidates, right? He'd come across what he considered a talented person. He didn't even matter if he didn't know what they were going to do. He's like, I'm just going to stack his team. And if you really think about the, his partners are standard oil, he essentially built a company, an executive team of founders of cause because he was buying up all their companies. So it's very rare. But there's a line from Titan. I want to read to you, taking for granted the growth of his empire, he hired talented people as found, not as needed. And then I found another in the hiring, like the actual interview process. So there's this kind of Vannever Bush. I did two episodes on them. I think it's 270 and 271. He is the most important American ever in the history in terms of connecting the scientific field, private enterprise and the government. The most important person to keep alive for the American War effort was FDR. The second one was Vannever Bush. Vannever Bush is like the forest gump of this historical period. He is involved in everything from the Manhattan Project to discovering like a young Claude Shannon to building a mechanical computer. Like this guy literally has done, he just, he pops up in these books over and over again. If you are reading about American business history during World War II and post World War II, you are going to come across the name Vannever Bush over and over again. I read his fantastic autobiography called Pieces of the Action. And I came across this weird highlight. And so this is his brilliant and unusual job interview process. And so he's talking about his organization. He's running called Amrad. At Amrad, I hired a young physicist from Texas named CG Smith. The way I hired him is interesting. An interview of that sort is always likely to be on on an artificial basis in somewhat embarrassing. So I discussed with him a technical point on which I was then genuinely puzzled the next day he came in with a, with a neat solution and I hired him at once. Here's another idea. This is from Nolan Bushnell. Nolan Bushnell is the founder of Atari, founder of Chuck E. She's and Steve Jobs mentor. He hired Steve Jobs when Steve Jobs was like 19 at Atari. He would ask people their reading habits in interviews. This is why one of the best ways his whole thing was he wanted to build all of his companies laid on a foundation of creative people. So that's what he's looking for. He's like, I need creative people. One of the best ways to find creative people is to ask a simple question. What books do you like? I've never met a creative person in my life that didn't respond with enthusiasm to a question about reading habits. Actually, which books people read is not as important as the simple fact that they read it all. I've known many talented engineers who hated science fiction, but loved say books on birdwatching. A blatant but often accurate generalization. People who are curious and passionate read people who are apathetic in a different don't. I remember one that that's such a great line. And I obviously agree with that. I remember one. I'm going to read it again. A blatant but often accurate generalization. People who are curious and passionate read people who are apathetic and in different don't. I remember one particular woman who during an interview told me that she had read every book that I had read. So I started mentioning books I hadn't read and she had read those two. I didn't know how someone in her late 20s found that time this much time to read so much. But I was impressed. I was so impressed that I hired her right there and assigned her to international marketing, which was having problems. This is why this is why I'm reading this whole section to you. A job with a lot of moving parts benefits from a brain that has a lot of moving parts. It wouldn't be possible to have read that many books without such a brain. So you see what I mean? We start with Steve Jobs saying this is the most important thing that your role is the leader of the company and the founder to do. And it's so important to study and this is why I'm glad this question exists. And why I'm glad that I took the time and I had the foresight to like, hey, I should really organize my thoughts and notes because there's no way I would have remembered all this without being able to search my read wise. But you have Rockefeller saying this is what's important to me. You have Bush saying this is how I hire. Now you have Nolan Bush now saying, well, here's another weird thing that I learned. Let me go through what Warren Buffett says about this. So this is about the quality. One thing that is consistent with his jobs, Buffett, Bezos, Peter Teal, this just pops up over and over again. They talk about the importance of trying to find people that are better than you. The hiring bar constantly has to increase. Now obviously, the larger the company gets, that's impossible. Steve Jobs says this is a great quote where he's like, you know, Pixar was the first time I see I saw an entire team, a tire company of A-Players. But they had 400 players. They had 400 team members. He's like at the time, Apple had 3000. It's like it's impossible to have 3000 A-Players. So there is some number that your company may grow to where it's just you're just not you're not going to have thousands of A-Players. In my argument, I don't even know if you get a 400, I guess you I mean, I'll take Steve's word for it on there and Pixar definitely produce great products, but it's probably a lot lower than that as well. So Warren Buffett would tell you to use David Ogovies hiring philosophy. And so Warren said, Charlie and I know that the right players will make almost any team manager look good. Again, that is why it's the most important function of the founder. Maybe direct.