 I am fascinated about the, you know, this because you and I talk about this heavily on the podcast. Like, who is the versions of them that actually built the foundation that their financial success and their empire rests upon? And it's this, it's this conversation. It's this them trying to figure out. Warren is 29 years old. Charlie is 35. They started working together 10 years from now. They're still only 45 and 39. So let me guess that it, I'm obsessed with thinking about this time. So it says Warren had heard of Charlie a few years earlier when he was raising investment capital in Omaha. This is hilarious. I think it was in the book Snowball. Warren was pitching this guy named Dr. Davis and his wife and he was explaining his investment philosophy. And at the end, he's like, okay, I'll give you $100,000 and Warren's like, what the hell? It's like, I thought you weren't even paying attention. Like, why would you dedicate such a large percentage of your network to me? I didn't even know what you were, I thought like, I was going to get kicked out of here. And Dr. Why are you willing to give me $100,000? And Dr. Davis explained that Warren reminded him of Charlie Munker. They didn't know each other yet. Warren didn't know Charlie, but already had at least one good reason to like him. So they have this dinner. Charlie and Warren realized that they shared many ideas that also became evidence. The others at the table that this was going to be a two way conversation. So they talk for hours. Everybody else has gone up and left. Again, this is so important to think about and to realize Warren's just 29. He's just 29 years old. And he's meeting his partner. He's going to be partners with it for 60 years. Charlie's 35. Warren was unenthusiastic about Charlie's continued practice of law. He believed it was a far less promising business than what Warren was doing. Warren's logic helped Charlie decide to quit law practice at the earliest point he could afford to do so. That's an important line. It the earliest point that he could afford to do so. Charlie is got a gang of kids. I think between him and his wife, when they're all said, I think they have eight and maybe nine children to support. When Charlie returned to Los Angeles, the conversations continued on the telephone and do lengthening letters. The conversations with Buffett, obviously, it was evident to both. This is really, really cool. It was evident to both that they were meant to be in business together. There was no formal partnership or contractual relationship. The bond was created by a handshake again. I had read that word that sentence. I don't know three times before I just read it to you. There was no formal partnership or contractual relationship. The bond was created by handshake. Then I'm listening to the preview of the best episode that's coming up with John Calson and Charlie Munger and towards the end of that. This is the note I left on my page on this page when I was reviewing my notes this morning before I want to talk to you. He said, trust is one of the greatest economic forces on earth. Pay attention to that part of the conversation at the end that comes by. It's probably like a minute long, but I sat there and re-rounded a few times. And trust is one of the greatest economic forces on earth. He's talking about the trust inside of the company with your partners and all the people that work with you. And then the trust outside all your partners, your customers, everybody else. But he summarized that was very fascinating and it really tied nicely to this what they're saying. There's no formal partnership at the beginning. There was no contract. They shook hands. In other words, they trusted each other. Trust is one of the greatest economic forces on earth. That is a direct quote from Charlie Munger. So Charlie eventually winds up leaving the law firm and going into, he starts his own investment partnership. He's essentially investing other people's money. Buffett did this as well. Buffett's going to close down his partnership, which we'll get to in a minute. Charlie is eventually going to close down them and then they're going to team up and do Berkshire, right? But this was fascinating, speaks to who he was as a person. So he leaves the law firm that he founded and he did not take his share of the firm's capital. Why? Instead, he directed at his share, go to the estate of his young partner, Fred Warder, who died of cancer and left behind a wife and children. Charlie thought that she and the children needed the money more than he did. So he winds up building this partnership with Jack Wheeler. They run this partnership from 1962 to 1975. So this has Charlie followed Warren and concluding that he no longer wanted to manage funds directly for investors. Warren had closed his own partnership in 1969. Instead, they resolved to build equity through stock ownership in a holding company. Now what's fascinating is they end this sort section on Charlie's life, right? With advice to do exactly what you and I do together every week, learn from biographies and become friends with the Aminit dead. Charlie's affinity for Benjamin Franklin's expansive career can be found in many speeches. And whenever he holds an audience large or small, and this is what Charlie says about this, I am a bi not biography, not myself. And I think when you're trying to teach the great concepts that work, it helps to tie them into the lives and personalities of the people who develop them. I think you learn economics better if you make Adam Smith your friend. That sounds funny, making friends among the Aminit dead. But if you go through life making friends with Aminit dead, who had the right ideas, I think it will work better for you in life and work and education. It is way better than just giving the basic concepts. Again, that is something that I learned through experience that he, again, practice what he preached. I got to see his library. And I asked him a ton of questions about books. So I, I think you already know this, but when I find somebody in my early Charlie Munger, then he recommends a bunch of books to read. I go and read those books and I've done a bunch of episodes on, you know, people like Henry Kaiser or Les Schwab that Charlie Munger would speak publicly. And he's like, Hey, you should really read this book. And what's crazy is one, it's clear enough to be honest. I talked to him like he makes me look like a biography amateur. Like there's nothing. I think he just knew so much more than I did. His collection was incredible. And then his recall from those books was incredible. So I think that's another, again, he's giving this advice to other people saying, Hey, you should really read biographies. I'm a biography now myself. And it's clear when you, when you see his library and then you ask him questions about this, like, Oh, this guy really reads these books and he reads and retains everything. It was incredible. And so this is section where there's a bunch of anecdotes and quotes from his children about who he was and what was important to him. And something that that he talks about is the fact that having an unconventional way of looking at things and a strong work ethic, those, those two things combined really well together. It's something that he lived because it talks about when they were children, like how, this is his schedule when he's trying, he's not yet successful, right? He's desperately, desperately trying to get that financial independence that he craved. And so one of his sons is actually describing this in those days, Charlie worked so hard and so long during the work weeks. He was off before dawn and home about dinnertime. Then he studied and later would spend a couple hours on the phone with Warren. And so Charlie is famous for saying that he succeeded because he has a long attention span, which he definitely does. But he also has this insane ability to focus. And so they're, again, they're describing this as another one of his sons describing what it was like at their house at night, father night after night with sitting his favorite chair, reading something all but death to the rough housing younger, younger children, the blaring TV and mom trying to summon him to dinner. Father's ability to wall off the most intrusive distractions from whatever mental task he was engaged in accounts as much as anything else for his success. People have said the same thing about Warren Buffett. It's in one of his biography. It might be snowball, it might be making of the American capitalist, but talks about they're all going on like a family vacation. They get on the private jet. I think the flight's like four or five hours. Warren sits there with all the stuff he's reading. People are having conversations. There's like kids everywhere and like you just cannot penetrate when he is focused on what he's studying when he's learning. He's essentially walled himself off from any distractions. Okay, so this is the last thing before we jump into the 11 different talks. This is really an overview. I made a list of five things that Charlie repeats and uses over and over again. So the first thing is that he's going to tell you you need. He calls it big ideas from the big disciplines. So Charlie's big ideas from the big disciplines approach. Charlie combines big ideas from multiple disciplines to build a more accurate understanding of the world. He will explain a business problem, but he'll be using things from mathematics, from physics, from chemistry, from biology, and from psychology. So that's what he means by multidisciplinary. That's his biggest criticism of all forms of form of education. Is that they just stay like siloed in their little domain and he's like, have no respect from that. Have no respect for that. Go wherever you're curious. He takes you, but you need to learn the big ideas in the big disciplines. So he's and then the second thing is you have to develop your own personal curriculum. You have to develop your own personal curriculum. This is a self taught system. A self taught statement is no exaggeration. Charlie once said to this day, I've never taken any course anywhere in chemistry, economics, psychology, or business. The third thing, good ideas are rare, bet heavily when you find one, I think this is starting to get through to more people. I think this will actually be more common than it was because how much Charlie and Warren talk about this. Charlie will not deviate from these principles regardless of group dynamics, emotional itches or popular wisdom. And these traits result in one of the best no monger characteristics, not buying or selling very often. Munger believes a successful investment career boils down to only a handful of decisions. When Charlie likes a business, he makes a very large bet and typically holds that position for a long period. Charlie is willing to commit uncommonly high percentage of his investment capital to individual opportunities. Number four, this is something you and I talk about over and over again, you see in the books. This only works if you trust your own judgment. You cannot be successful. Entrepreneur can be successful investor if you cannot trust your own judgment. Charlie is content to swim against the tide of popular opinion indefinitely. Charlie is simply content to trust his own judgment when it runs counter to the wisdom of the herd. This lone wolf aspect of Charlie's temperament is a rarely appreciated reason why he count consistently outperforms. And number five, inversion, get what you want by avoiding what you do not want. Charlie generally focuses first on what to avoid. That is what not to do. He says that he's gotten a long term advantage just by being consistently not stupid instead of trying to be a genius, trying to be very intelligent. I would actually reduce that down even further that avoiding stupidity over a long period time is genius. Another thing that's genius, so I guess there's six. Charlie strives to reduce complex situations to their most basic, unemotional fundamentals. That's a line I've been reading over and over again. This has the fewest moving parts genius has the fewest moving parts. Another thing that Charlie does that's very different is he spends an unbelievable amount of time. In fact, if you may, I mean, I'd read the whole thing, but if you only said, if you only had to read one thing, it would be the very last talk, the talk 11, which is the psychology of human misjudgment. Charlie recognizes that even among the most competent people decisions are not always made on a purely rational basis. He considers the psychological factors of human misjudgment some of the most important mental model. So that is the longest talk by far. I think it's the one that he spent the most time on. I think he said he spent 50 hours revising that talk just to publish it in this book. My friend, Andrew Wilkinson, the founder of Tiny, actually made, he commissioned an animated video on this talk. I will leave a final link and leave it down below in the show notes. And then the final thing before we jump into the first talk above all, he attempts to assess and understand competitive advantage in every respect products, market trademarks, employees, distribution channels, societal trends, and so on. And the durability of that advantage hold on, I'm going to interrupt myself because one of my favorite things that I read the first time, one of the favorite lines, the first time I read this book was something that when Charlie's son said about what his father admires. And the way I think about it in my own life is aim for durability. Durability has always been a first rate virtue in my father's eyes. So let's go back to this. So he attempts to assess and understand competitive advantage in every respect, products, markets, trademarks, employees, distribution channels, societal trends, and so on. And the durability of that advantage, Charlie refers to a company's competitive advantage as its moat, which is the barrier that it presents against incursions. This is the note I left myself on this page. Charlie only focuses on great businesses and great businesses have moats. It was very fascinating in the conversation between John Carlson and Charlie Munger. This is again, I think towards the end, maybe the middle of the podcast, John asks, like, hey, if we came and me and my brother Patrick came and pitched you on strike, what would you want to know about stripe? And he essentially one sentence is again, what is the most important thing? Charlie only focuses on great businesses and great businesses have moats. And so Charlie's answer to John was, is it likely to remain forever as a money generator? In other words, does it have a moat? Okay, so we get to the first talk, which is a commencement address that he gave in 1986. And right away we see Charlie's love of inversion because most graduation speakers are going to say, hey, this is what you should do to get happy life. Charlie does not do that. He uses the inversion principle and he says, I'm going to make the opposite case by setting forth what you should do if you want to reach a state of misery. Now he is going to emulate a talk that Johnny Carson gave at this school as well a few years before Charlie Munger did. And Johnny Carson did the same thing where he's like, I want to tell you, like, I'm going to give you a speech on the things to avoid. And what was fascinating about that is Carson said in that speech that he couldn't tell the graduating class how to be happy, but he could tell them for personal experience how to guarantee misery. I read Johnny Carson's autobiography, or should he be biography? It's episode 183. I'm pretty sure that based on the reading of that book, I don't think Carson ever attained happiness. And I do think he was more miserable than he needed to. So this is fascinating. So the three things that Carson's prescription for sure misery, he had three and then Munger is going to add four. So the first one is ingesting chemicals in an effort to alter mood or perception. Obviously, drugs and alcohol, once you start relying on them, there's no way you're going to have a, like, you're going to be, you have a miserable life if you rely on them. Number two, envy and number three resentment. So envy is something that Munger talks about over and over again. He's like, you had to live a great life. You have to cure yourself of this inherent part of our human nature, which is we like to be envy or not even like to be. We are prone to be envious of others. There's something that he repeats over and over again that he learned from Warren Buffett. Warren would tell Charlie over and over again that it's not greed that drives the world, but envy. Envy drives the world. And Charlie later in life talks about the fact that he is one of the best things he ever did was that he cured himself of envy. A third part to this is avoiding resentment. And so he is going to give us advice. He's like, you know, you don't want to become a bitter person because that's all resentment does. It's just going to make you bitter. He's actually going to quote the solution to this that Benjamin Disraeli, which was a, he was a prime minister of the United Kingdom back in the 1800s. And this is what he did. So it's called the Disraeli compromise. And so one way Disraeli learned to give up vengeance as a motivation for action was he needed some some outlet for his resentment, right? He couldn't just quit it to cold turkey. So he would put the names of people who wronged him on pieces of paper in a drawer. So what he what Charlie is describing to us is called the Disraeli compromise by putting the names of people who wronged him on pieces of paper in the drawer. Then from time to time, he reviewed these names and took pleasure in noting the way the world had taken his enemies down without his assistance. And so if you want a miserable life, make sure you're just chemicals in an effort to alter mood or perception and become addicted to that to be envious of people, all the people around you, people doing better than you and three hold on to resentment. The fourth one, this is where Munger starts adding his own thing. You want a miserable life? Be unreliable. If you like being distrusted and excluded from the best human contribution in company, this prescription is for you. Make sure you are unreliable. The next prescription for a miserable, miserable life is to learn everything you possibly can from your own experience. Minimize what you learn vicariously from the good and bad experiences of others living and dead. This prescription is a sure shot producer of misery and second rate achievement. And this is this is why I say he's got a great a bunch of maxims that I absolutely love, maybe my favorite all time maximum of Charlie Munger is just three words. Wisdom is prevention. Why people don't solve problems? They avoid them. Wisdom is prevention. One way you do that, you learn vicariously through the experiences of other people living and dead. You can see the results of not learning from others mistakes by simply looking about you. How little originality there is in common disasters of mankind. He's saying, hey, pay attention to human nature and human history. It's just one dumb person after another making the same dumb mistakes. And if they just learned through other people's experience, they would avoid that mistake. He's saying, there's no even originality in the mistakes that you're making. These are well documented. Why aren't you avoiding them? Drunk driving, reckless driving, incurable vinaural diseases, conversion of bright college students into brainwash zombies as members of destructive cults. The other aspect of avoiding vicarious wisdom is the rule of not absolutely under no circumstances learn from the best work done before use. Four years, excuse me. And then he adds this great story here. If you want to be non-miserable, which is the opposite. He's trying to teach you, hey, this is a whole prescription for misery. Obviously, he's teaching us about inversion, but somebody that was able to have a non-miserable result. And so he gives us this historical count. There was once a man who mastered the work of his best predecessors despite a poor start and a very rough time. Eventually, his own work attracted wide attention and he said of his work, if I have seen a little farther than another man, it is because I stood on the Seral Robe Giants. The bones of that man lie buried now under an unusual inscription. Here lie the remains of all that was mortal in Sir Isaac Newton. Charlie's third prescription, which is the seventh, the final one in this talk. Go down and stay down when you get your first, second, and third severe reverse in the battle of life. There is so much adversity out there, even for the lucky and wise. So we are not persevering. We are quitting. Something that I use to remind myself on the importance of not giving up and that I really do believe what Paul Graham said, he was asked one time what plays a more important role in the success of entrepreneurs, determination or intelligence. And he said determination by far. And he tells us a fantastic story where he's like, let's say you take two people, they both start out 100 with 100 in both determination and intelligence. You start taking away decreasing the amount of intelligence, but keeping their determination at 100, that person's still going to wind up rich. I think he said, but they're only like a bunch of, they'll figure out a way to make money. They'll own like a bunch of trash hauling services or something like that, but they're super determined. Meanwhile, if you run that, if you run the same experiment and you keep intelligence at 100 and 100 but take away determination, you have a brilliant but ineffectual person. And Paul Graham has said he's seen a bunch of people that their lives wind up just like that, a brilliant but ineffectual person. And I think that's related to what Charlie Munger is saying here. It's like, oh yeah, you want to be miserable. Like you're going to get knocked down. Everybody's going to get knocked down. Just lay there. Just don't get up. Don't try again. And so I told you this over and over again, I have the face, the frozen frostbitten, exhausted face of Ernest Shackleton, the famous polar explorer, as my lock screen on my phone. Could you probably look at your phone about 150 times a day or something like that? And every time I see his face staring back at me and it reminds me of his motto, buy endurance week conquer. We're not going to stop until we're dead by endurance week conquer. Let's go back to this, which is Charlie's advice to invert, always invert. What Carson did was to approach the study of how to create X by turning the question backward. The great algebraist, Jacobi, had exactly the same approach as Carson and was known for his constant repetition of one phrase, invert.