 always invert. It is the nature of things that many hard problems are best solved only when they are addressed backwards. So therefore, if you want to be miserable, you should approach problems in a standard way and only believe information that agrees with your previous conclusions. So I mentioned earlier that when I find somebody admire and if they say, hey, I admire this person, I will then read, like, I'll read the book that they recommend. And so there's this entrepreneur and engineer named Carl Braun and he starts this company called CF Braun Engineering Company. Munger repeats stories about this guy over and over again. In fact, I didn't find any books on him. I found like this little, like, maybe 60 page book, which was like an internal company book for the CF engineering company. And I did a podcast on it a long time ago. I don't know if I ever published the podcast. I can't find it anywhere. So I should go back and actually find that book and reread it and see if there's lessons in there for you and I to learn from. But one idea that that Munger repeats that's one of the most important ideas that you learn from Carl Braun is some really speaks to like this psychological tendency and human nature that you will get more compliance and more be more persuasive if you tell people why, if you tell your employees why you need them to do what you need them to do. This was so important to Carl Braun that if you did, if you were inside his company and you didn't do this, the second time you did it, you would be fired. So this is a little bit about that. A very great businessman named Carl Braun designed and built oil refineries. That's what the business did. He had a rule from psychology, which if you're interested in wisdom ought to be part of your repertoire. His rule for all Braun company communications was called the five W's. You had to tell who what was going what was going to do what, where, when and why. And if you wrote a letter in the Braun company telling somebody to do something and you didn't tell him why you would get fired. In fact, you would get fired if you did it twice. That is a rule of psychology. If you always tell people why they'll understand it better. They'll consider it more important and they'll be more likely to comply. Even if they don't understand your reason, they'll be more likely to comply in communicating with other people about everything you want to include why, why, why, even if it is obvious, it is wise to stick in the why. And so then another idea that Charlie will repeat is that he thinks it's useful to think of a free market economy as sort of the equivalent to an ecosystem. And so he says just as animals flourish in niches, people who specialize in the business world and get very good because they specialize frequently find good economics that they wouldn't get any other way. And so he's talking about one way to describe this. I've heard him say that really stuck in my head is he has this great line about the importance of going to extremes. And he says in business, we often find that the winning system goes almost ridiculously, ridiculously far in maximizing and or minimizing one or a few variables. And so the example he uses for that is like the discount warehouses of Costco. And then immediately after he starts talking about the advantages of scale, which seems almost like a contradiction, but he's going to wrap this up and how you special you you initially start specializing in dominating one niche and that can lead to more scale. And then he says the advantages of scale are ungodly important. These next five or six pages are some of my favorite parts of the entire book. If you get your own copy, it's I'm on page I'm starting on page 90. So the first example about the advantages of scale being ungodly important, he talks about the the invention of TV advertising and just how powerful he says it was an unbelievably powerful thing. Why? Because there was only three networks and three networks had something like 90% of the entire audience. So if you were proctor and gamble, you had ungodly scale and you were one of the few people that could actually afford to use this new method of advertising and your smaller competitor obviously couldn't. And then this is the first time he goes into to tell about something he talks about over and over again about he never looks at anything in isolation. He thinks about how one factor can combine with another factor with another factor and he creates these. He goes on Lalo Palo's effects, but essentially just you're stacking unfair advantage after on top of one unfair advantage after top of one unfair advantage and they all greatly increase the efficacy of each one. So he's talking about television advertising, right, which is essentially an advantage of scale that proctor and gamble have. Now there's more advantages to that scale that start with, hey, being big to begin with and this new technology is invented than I can partake in that technology and my smaller competitors can't. Then what happens is more people know about the products and the brands that proctor game own that leads to another psychological effect, which is social proof. Social proof because more people hear about it. They think, oh, other people are buying these brands. I should just do the same thing. Social proof, proof leads to more sales. More sales then lead to more distribution, more distribution leads to this like winner take all or winner take most flywheel. And then as the company has more resources inside of the company, you can actually have greater specialization. It's incredible how he ties this all together. So I'm just going to pull out a couple things that is the basic overview. So he's talking about the fact that you're you have access to this unbelievable distribution channels unbelievable way to advertise your products and you're as a result, you're becoming so much more well known. Why is that important? Because being so well known has advantages of scale. This is what you might call an informational advantage. It increases social proof. You're all influenced subconsciously into some extent consciously by what we see others do and approve. Therefore, if everybody's buying something, we think it's better. We don't like to be the one guy who's out of step. The social proof phenomenon, which comes right out of psychology, gives huge advantages to scale. And then those huge advantages to scale continue to give you another benefit that other competitors essentially expand your mode. That's the way you think about it. So he's talking about like, who's also another company that did this? Well, Coca Cola. And why is that so important to Coca Cola? Because one advantage that Coca Cola has is that it's available almost everywhere in the world. That worldwide distribution, right? One takes a long time to develop is really expensive is only something that they possess. And so he calls us a huge advantage and then he follows up on why that's important. If you think about it, once you get enough advantages of that type, it can be very hard for anybody to dislodge you. And it can also uncover great investment opportunities, not available to anybody else because they don't have the advantages. I was wondering why I was listening to this business breakdowns episode on Coca Cola, right? And I was wondering why it doesn't matter where I'm at when I'm traveling. It might be like in a small city or whatever, I'll go and like go into this like tiny shop and you'll see monster energy drinks. I don't drink them, but you see monster energy drinks everywhere. And like, how the hell is it possible? These people are just everywhere. Every single tiny spot, even if they don't have other energy drinks, they'll usually have monster. And I found out I heard on this podcast that I think Coca Cola was able to invest. I think they had like an opportunity to get, I can't remember the percentage. I want to say 20% of the company. And the reason monster did that is because it gave them access to Coca Cola's worldwide distribution network. So that is why I'm seeing monster energy drink anywhere everywhere. And I found out mistaken monsters, one of the highest performing stocks, you know, in the past like decade or two, whatever the case is. So now let's go back to this idea. Once you get enough advantages of this type, he's very hard for anybody to dislod you. There's another kind of advantage to scale. And some businesses, the very nature of things is to sort of cascade towards the overwhelming dominance of one firm, which is what we're just talking about here with Coca Cola, right? And then he gives another example that daily newspapers, which him and Buffett made a bunch of money on in their heyday. The most obvious one is the daily newspapers. This is a scale thing. Once they get most of the circulation, I get most of the advertising. And once they get most of the advertising and the circulation, why would anybody want a thinner paper with less information in it? So it tends to cascade to a winner take all situation. And that is a separate form of the advantages of scale phenomenon. Did you see what he just did there? He's talking about all these different factors that interact with each other and make this phenomenon even more powerful. And then he ties it back together with this conversation starter with hey, it's kind of weird. Like think about a free market economy. It looks really looks a lot to Charlie Munger like an ecosystem. And there's a bunch of animals flour flourishing in these weird niches. Seems to be a lot of people and businesses that do that too. So then he flips a like, well, what does that do to like new startups or new entrants into a market? Right? Well, there's disadvantages of scale as well. So I just did, I think two weeks ago, I just did this episode on on more and often in Charlie Mungers, one of their favorite managers, a guy named Tom Murphy who was running capital cities who winds up buying ABC. Berkshire Hathaway was their largest shareholder. And so Munger had a front row seat to a disadvantage of scale. So he says we had trade publications at capital cities in ABC. Now we're getting murdered. Our competitors were beating us and the way they beat us was by going to a narrower specialization. So it always starts out small and it expands. That inevitable expansion opens up for somebody else to niche back down, right? And this is exactly what happens. The way they beat us was to go to a narrower specialization like an ecosystem. You're getting narrower and narrower specialization. So we use this example of this magazine that was kicking their ass called motor cross. And this is hilarious. This is why Munger. So he's such a great teacher because he makes you laugh and you remember the stuff. Motor cross is read by a bunch of nuts who like to participate in tournaments where they turn summer salts on their motorcycles. But they care about it. For them, it is the principal purpose of life. A magazine called Motor Cross is a total necessity to these people and its profit margins would make you salivate. So occasionally scaling down and intensifying, scaling down and intensifying gives you the big advantage. Bigger is not always better. The great defect of scale, another great defect of scale is of course you as you get big, you get bureaucratic. Again, this is grounded in human nature. So he talks about always focusing on what the incentives are. The incentives in a bureaucracy are perverse. And centers are no longer the company's mission. It's hey, how do I protect this territory that I have? And so he said, so you get big fat, dumb, unmotivated bureaucracies. You get layers of management and associated costs that nobody needs and they're too slow to make decisions. And the nimble people run circles around them. So life is an everlasting battle between those two forces to get these advantages of scale on one side and avoid bureaucracies who do very little work on another side. And so he's going to give you an example of Sam Walton was fascinating. If you read Sam Walton's autobiography, which I've done, I think I've done two or three podcasts on Sam in that book was fascinating. He starts out this nimble guy and builds this giant company. And he says, like, it doesn't matter. Like every year you have to be like bureaucratic creep is inevitable. Then you have to beat it across, beat it back across the line. And it usually comes from like the leader of the founder really paying attention to stuff where they were he talks about one thing that he hated that his company was doing in the book was that new merchandise would come into the store. They would have to label like put the prices on it. And in many cases, they were putting wrong prices on it. So then somebody had this idea, okay, okay, we're going to hire a bunch of people and they have like these scanners. And then after it's been priced, they scan it to make sure it's the right price. And Sam's like, what the hell? Why don't we just do it right? Like this is another layer of bureaucracy. And so it's like, why don't we just do it right the first time. And so in this story, Charlie does something that's brilliant. He adds another element to this story that he's been telling us now going over six seven pages. And he's the main thing, it's one of my favorite things he's ever said. Sam Walton's one of my favorite entrepreneurs. But he said, Sam Walton, this is my summation about what I'm about to read to you. Sam Walton's an interesting example of how scale and fanaticism combined to be very, very powerful. It's quite interesting to think about Walmart starting from a single store in Arkansas against seers with its name, reputation, and all of its billions. How does a guy in Bentonville, Arkansas would know money blow right by seers? And he does it in his own lifetime. In fact, during his own late lifetime, because he was already pretty old by the time he started out with his one little store. So he'd had a bunch of experience like retailing and discount retailing. Let's say I think it was 44. My memory serves me correct when he started his first Walmart, but he'd been working retail like 20 20 plus shares by the time. But Charlie is right that it starts out with one Walmart. And he think he's 44 at the time. He played the chain store game harder and better than anyone else. Sam Walton invented practically nothing, but he copied everything anybody ever did that was smart. And he did it with more fanaticism. So he blew right by them all. He also had a very interesting competitive strategy in the early days. He was like a prize fighter who wanted a great record. So he could be in the finals. So what did he do? He went out and fought 42 Polucas. So like, you know, 42 like mediocre operators essentially. And the result was knockout after knockout after knockout 42 times. Walton being as shrewd as he was basically broke other small town merchants in the early days. With his more efficient system, he might not have been able to tackle some Titan head on at that time. But with his better system, he could share his hell destroy those small town merchants. And he ran around doing it time after time after time. Then as he got bigger, he started destroying the big boys. Well, that was a very, very shrewd strategy. Walton is an interesting model of how the scale of things and fanaticism combine to be very powerful. His competitors weren't as lean and mean and shrewd and effective as Sam Walton was. Another one of Charlie's ideas that I really love is he has this surfing model. I'll just read this to you. There are huge advantages for the early birds. When you're an early bird, there's a model that I call surfing. When a surfer gets up and catches the wave and just stays there, that's the most important phrase of this entire paragraph. And just stays there. He can go for a long, long time. But if he gets off the wave, he becomes mired in the shallows. People get long runs when they're right on the edge of the wave. And so he uses the example of Microsoft or Intel. And then this company that he loves, he talks about over and over again, National Cash Register, which kind of relates to Microsoft and Intel too, because the founder of IBM, Thomas Watson, actually worked for National Cash Register. And obviously, Microsoft and Intel were very important partners to IBM. So the reason he thinks he gives an illustration of why surfing is so very powerful and how the actual founder of National Cash Register, which is scanning Patterson, did something very smart. And this is fascinating. He says, I have in my files an early National Cash Register company report in which Patterson describes his methods and objectives and a well-educated orangutan could see that buying into a partnership with Patterson in those early days, given his notions about the cash register business, was a total 100% cinch. Surfing is a very powerful model. And so what he's talking about is Patterson was running like a small store, right? And before the invention of the cash register is really hard to make money, because it's so easy for the first for your employees to steal from you, right? You just don't know where the money's coming in. And so the cash register, the solution that it solved was it finally accounted for and organized all the cash flowing in and out of the company. And Patterson knew that this was so powerful because he buys this new piece of equipment, the cash register first story, immediately starts making money. Then he immediately closes his store and decides, forget this, the bigger opportunity is to do, provide the service that was provided to me. I should be selling the cash registers. I should not be in the store. And so he got there right on the very edge and then just stayed there for a very, very long time. So that's why a mugger uses Patterson and National Cash Register as a illustration of this very important model to Charlie Mugger. That surfing is a very powerful model. And I think that is related to his next idea because if you don't stay there, you're giving away your edge. And that's not smart. Most people are competing in domains where they don't have an edge. Charlie says, if you play games or other people have the aptitudes and you don't, you're going to lose. And that's as close to certain as any prediction you can make, you have to figure out where you get where you've got an edge. And there's a, there's this guy named Ed Thorpe, who I talk about ad nauseam. Ed Thorpe is really my blueprint for life. He's one of maybe a handful of people I feel master life out of all the people we've studied in the podcast together. It's episode 222 if you don't know him talking about. He's an inventor of the first quantitative hedge fund. He was the first LP in the Citadel. He invented the first handheld computer with Claude Shannon. The guy was just flat out genius. He's still alive to this day. He took care of his health. Incredible. But in Ed's unbelievable autobiography, which I heavily recommend you read. It's called A Man for All Markets. Episode 222 again. He says something. You know, he's writing that book. I think he's in his 70s or 80s. I think he's in his 80s when he's writing that book. And so let me read a quote from that book that sounds a lot like the advice that Charlie Munger just gave us. I also believe then as I do know now after more than 50 years as a money manager that the surest way to get rich is to own is to play only those games or make those investments where I have an edge. That is exactly you have two of the smartest people I've ever come across. Charlie Munger and Ed Thorpe no doubt. If you talk to Charlie Munger, you read it, read it, you heard him speak, you'd think he's genius. I think if you study at Thorpe, you would arrive at the same conclusion. In fact, with the first time I did Ed Thorpe, it was like a long time ago. So maybe 80 or 9 years, something like that. And I got this email or message from somebody that listens to the podcast and then bought the book after it and read it. And they're like, hey, you left out the fact on the podcast that this guy is a genius. I was like, well, it's pretty obvious. The way he lived his life, he's a genius. But that's fine. From now on, that message stuck in my mind. So every time I bring up at Thorpe, I have to bring up the fact that he's obviously a genius. And so let's go back to this great story that he tells about Warren Buffett. And this is the great illustration that is really stop praying at the altar of diversification. If you could trust your own judgment and you know it's a good opportunity to go all in, bet heavily. You're not going to have many such cases, many such examples in your life. When Warren Buffett lectures at business schools, he says, I can improve your ultimate financial welfare by giving you a ticket with only 20 slots in it. So you had only 20 punches, representing all the investments that you got to make in a lifetime. And once you'd punch through the card, you couldn't make any more investments at all. Under those rules, this is still Warren speaking the whole time, right? Under those rules, you'd really think carefully about what you did and you'd be forced to load up on what you'd really thought about. So you do much better. Again, this is not Charlie speaking. This is a concept that seems perfectly obvious to me. And to Warren, it seems perfectly obvious. It just isn't conventional wisdom. And so this is Charlie's explicit advice to you and I. The wise bet heavily when the world offers them that opportunity. They bet big when they have the odds and the rest of the time they don't. It's just that simple. That is a very simple concept. And to me, it's obviously right. Practically nobody operates that way. How many insights do you need? Well, I argue that you don't need many in a lifetime. If you look at Berkshire Hathaway and all of its accumulated billions, the top 10 insights account for most of it. Most of the money came from 10 insights. And if you go back, I always think about this because people are like, you know, I think the main lesson that you and I are learning over and over again is the importance of focus. I think betting heavily and being concentrated in the business that you have an edge and you know, well, is an element of focus to why only focus on founders. I really don't, you know, don't do any investing. I don't really care about it. I just care about what I'm doing. I want to be completely obsessed with it. So that's not a new idea. I just stole that idea. Like if you can read a bunch on Rockefeller, right? Rockefeller made all his money in Standard Oil and then he would make some really weird investment decisions and lost a bunch of money outside of Standard Oil for the most part. But the way I look at it is like, okay, if if.