 next to the product right above the product actually because those are people building your product. We subscribe to the philosophy of Ogavi and Mathers founding genius David Ogavi. This is what Ogavi said. If each of us hires people who are smaller than we are, we should become a company of dwarfs. But if each of us hires people who are bigger than we are, we should become a company of giants. David or Jeff Bezos rather used a variation of Ogavi's idea too. Jeff used to say in Amazon, every time we hire someone, he or she should raise the bar for the next hire so that the overall talent pool is always improving. They talk about this idea in Amazon where the future hires that we do should be so good that if you had applied for the job you already have an Amazon, you wouldn't get in. That's a very interesting idea. Take your time with recruiting. Take your time with hiring. This is a great book on the history of PayPal. It's written actually, I recently become friends with the author, his name is Jimmy Sony. This is in his book. The most fascinating thing that I found was that PayPal prioritized speed. From the time they found it, to the time they sell to eBay, it's like four years. Jimmy spent more time researching the book than he spent six years researching the book. I always tease him because you took a long run of book and they took to start and sell their company. It just speaks to the quality he's trying to do. But as a byproduct of that, obviously they move fast, but they prioritize speed over everything else except in one area, recruiting. Max Lutton kept the bar for talent exceedingly high, even if that came at the expense of speedy staffing. Max kept repeating a's higher a's b's higher c's so the first b you hire takes the whole company down. Let's read that again. A players hire a players b players higher c players. So the first b player you hire takes the whole company down. Additionally, the team, the company leaders, mandated that all prospects. Here's another idea for you. All prospects must meet every single member of the team. Now, the next one is the most bizarre. It makes sense. If you study, I did this three part on Larry Ellison, three parts series on Larry Ellison, I should read those books again because the podcast is like 50 times bigger than when I publish those episodes. And he's just crazy. So he would hire based on the confidence, the self-confidence level. Of the candidate. Listen to this. I have tears of my eyes. I don't know why I'm laughing. Okay. Because this is you read about Larry Ellison and he's one of these people's like really easy to interface with because you just you just know exactly who he is and what's important to him. That's why I think it's so funny. Ellison insisted that his recruiters hire only the finest and cockiest new college graduates. When they were recruiting from universities, they'd ask people, are you the smartest person you know? And if they said yes, they would hire them. If they said no, they would say who is and they would go hire that guy and said, I don't know if you got the smartest people that way, but you definitely got the most arrogant Ellison. And this is what the personality of the founder is largely the culture of the company. Apple is Steve Jobs. Apple is just Steve Jobs in 10,000 lives. Right? I was just texting a founder friend of mine. He was a support guest. I actually met him through the podcast and he's going through this like process of self-discovery. Like he's already started a bunch of companies are really successful, but he's like, I think I'm more of this type of founder than the other type of founder. And that's good that he's doing that because he's he's hopefully his next mission is like his life submission, you know? And you can't get your life's mission unless you do you figure out who you are. Ellison knew who he was. Ellison swaggering combative style became a part of the company's identity. This arrogant culture had a lot to do with Oracle's success. Here's another odd idea for you. Easy shark, the founder of four seasons actually could figure it out that in his business, which was hotels, right? That hiring could hiring the right person could actually be a form of distribution for his hotel. He gave me the idea because of what? What do we know? What do you and I know in our bones that history's greatest founders all read biographies. They all read biographies of people that came before them and took ideas from them. Easy shark is trying to build four seasons. What do you think he did? He picked up a biography of Caesar Ritz, the guy that Ritz Carlton's named after. The great arguably greatest hotel year of all time. And when he realized, oh, shit, Ritz, he says remembering that Caesar Ritz made his hotels world famous by hiring some of the foremost chefs. We decided to do something similar. So what is he talking about? Caesar Ritz went out and partnered with August Ascaphiae. What Caesar Ritz was to hotel to building hotels August Ascaphiae was to French cooking. And so what happened is you partner with world famous chefs. People come into your restaurant that's in the hotel because the world's famous chef. And now they know about your hotel that leads to more that leads to more activity in your restaurant that you own, but also leads to more brand recognition of your hotel. And then by as a biopartic that more people staying at hotel. So hiring as a form of distribution, this is fascinating. And as a fascinating idea. Okay, here's a problem. You can identify great people, right? Maybe they even want to come work. If you've identified them, you've sold them, hey, this is what this is our mission. This is what we're doing. And yet humans have complicated lives. They have spouses. They have kids. They have a reason. Maybe they can't move across the country to work for you, even though they want to. So there's a problem solving element that you see in these books. On you have to solve, like you've already identified the person, you've recruited them. They can't go for some other reason. Okay, well, the great founders are not going to take no for an answer. I read in this book called Lift Off, which is about the first six years of SpaceX. This is what Elon musted. They had to dissipate it. His friends issue having convinced must they needed to bring this brilliant young engineer from Turkey on board. It became a matter of solving the problem. His wife had a job in San Francisco. She would need one in Los Angeles, right? Because that's where SpaceX is at the time. These were solvable problems. And Elon's better at solving problems than almost anyone else. Must therefore came into his job interview prepared about halfway through must told the guy that he wants to hire. So I heard you don't want to move to LA. And one of the reasons is that your wife works for Google. Well, I just talked to Larry and they're going to transfer your wife down to LA. So what are you going to do now to solve this problem? Must could call his friend Larry Page, the co founder of Google, the engineer sat and stunned silence for a moment. But then he replied, given all that, he would come to work at SpaceX. That's really smart. There is another idea when you're promoting or you're going to promote one within or from without, you know, that's dependent on you, depending on what's going on. I do think this is interesting though. This is a guy named Les Schwab who built this really valuable chain of like tire companies in the Pacific Northwest. I actually found out about him because Charlie Munger is like, hey, you should read this biography. He said it in, he didn't say it to me personally. He said it to in like one of the Berkshire meetings that to study Les Schwab had one of the both, one of the smartest financial incentive structures or any company that Charlie Munger had come across. So this is what Les Schwab did. He did not want to hire from, he didn't want to hire other people from other companies because they might come with bad habits. He liked to train his own executives. And so he says in our 34 years of business, we have never hired a manager from the outside. Every single one of our more than 250 managers and assistant managers started at the bottom changing tires. They have all earned their management job by working up. And then another thing, if you're going to hire the best of the best in a players, there are players don't like to be micro-managed. And so this came in Larry Miller's autobiography called Driven. He owns like, he owned like 93 companies all throughout Utah, Cardiola, Shows, Movie theaters, all kinds of crazy stuff. But he also owned the the NBA team Utah Jazz. And what was fascinating is he's trying to recruit Jerry Sloan as the coach at the point. And Jerry Sloan would only take the job on one condition. And I really like it. I really like this idea. If you hire me, let me run the team in business. Right? That's what you're hiring me for. One of the best things we had ever done was hire Jerry Sloan as coach. At the time, he said, I'm only going to ask you for one thing. If I get fired, let me get fired for my own decisions. If you hire me, let me run the team slash business. Here's another idea from Thomas Edison that I think is fascinating. Really, the way I think about a founder is like, you're developing skills that you can't hire for. You're going to hire for everything else, but you shouldn't be hireable. And Edison wasn't. Edison expressing his views on the preeminent role of applied scientists, which that's what he considered himself, coined the expression, I can hire mathematicians, but they can't hire me. And so when I read that paragraph for the first time, the note I left myself was develop skills that you can't hire for. Capitalism rewards things that are both rare and valuable. Estee Lauder would give you advice that you need to hire people aligned with your thinking and values. Hire the best people. This is vital. Hire people who think as you do and treat them well in our business, they are top priority. So this idea is like, that seems kind of weird. Like hire people who think like you, there's obviously not one right way to build a business. I think that your business should be an expression of your personality who are as a person at a core. And so I think there is an art to the building of your business. And the reason to use the word art, I don't mean in like a hoidi toy, you know, pretentious manner. That's not me at all. I don't even care about it. I don't art at all. Really, I mean that you're making decisions not just based on economics. Like there are non economic, important decisions based on how you're building your business. Like you could probably make more money doing a decision A, but decision A goes against who you are as a person or you just don't like it or it's just not as elegant or beautiful. And so therefore you don't do it. So that's what I mean about you know, hire people who think as you do and what for whatever reason when I read S.A. Lauder say that, I was like, okay, there's like this art to what she's doing. One thing that's going to be helpful in recruiting, this comes from Peter Teal. I think this is the book zero to one. Understand that most companies don't even differentiate their pitches to potential recruits and to hiring. So therefore like they're just going to buy as a buy product of that. You're going to wind up with a lower overall talent base. And so he says, what's wrong with valuable stock smart people are pressing problems. Nothing, but every company makes this these claims. So they won't hope you stand out. General and undifferentiated pitches to join your company. Don't see anything about why a recruiter should join your company instead of money, instead of many others. So that idea of like your pitch, your actual, he would tell you, you shouldn't be building an undifferentiated commodity business. But even above and beyond that, like the mission that you're trying to engage everybody to join you in that pitch, that sale, sale you're trying to make to potential recruit should be differentiated should not. If that person is applying to five other jobs, there should not be like, it's like they may not like your mission, they may not like your pitch, but they shouldn't be able to compare anything else. Another quote from Nolan Bushnell, hire for passion and intensity. That's what he would do. All right, that's what he did when he found Steve Jobs. If there was a single characteristic that separates Steve Jobs from the massive employees, it was his passionate enthusiasm. Steve had one full, but one speed, full blast. This was the primary reason we hired him. And one thing all these founders haven't common is that he know how important hiring is. And when something's important, you do it yourself. This is again, Elon Musk on hiring. He interviewed the first 3000 employees at SpaceX. That's how important it was. One of Musk's most valuable skills was his ability to determine whether someone would fit his mold. His people had to be brilliant. They had to be hardworking and there could be no nonsense. There are a ton of phonies out there and not many who are the real deal must said of his approach to interviewing engineers. I can usually tell within 15 minutes and I can sure I can for sure tell within a few days of working with them Musk made hiring a priority. He personally met with every single person the company hired through the first 3000 employees. It required late nights and weekends, but he felt it was important to get the right people for his company. And then the close on this, we started with Steve Jobs telling us why it was so important and why should be a large part of how you spend your time. And now we'll close with what you do after. What do you do after you hire the person? This what he says, it's not just recruiting after recruiting. It's building an environment that makes people feel they are surrounded by equally talented people and their work is bigger than they are. The feeling that their work will have a tremendous influence and it's part of a strong, clear vision. So that is the end to that 20 minute mini episode. I just relist into the whole thing. And it really does. I think it's a perfect explanation and illustration of why I think founders notes are so valuable because some of those books I haven't read in five, six years and just the ability to have a searchable database of all these these ideas like this collected knowledge of some of the history's greatest entrepreneurs to reference and then contextually apply to our own businesses. It's nothing short of like it's magic. That's the really the way I think about it. I think it's a massive superpower. It gives me a massive superpower. I couldn't make the podcast without it. I also think if you have access to it, it will make your business better. And so if you're already running a successful business, I highly recommend that you invest in the description and you can do that by going to foundersnotes.com.