 I first came across Port Charlie's Almanac in my 20s when I was trying to learn everything I could about what made successful businesses tick. I found it to be a refreshing rebuttal of conventional financial wisdom delivered with unusual simplicity and candor. Never before had I heard a venerated businessperson express such trenchant insights about investing, finance, and the world more broadly, and with such hootspa. One can't help but read a line like, without numerical fluency, you were like a one-legged man in an ass-kicking contest, and come away not only chuckling, but also a little bit wiser. I had the privilege of meeting Charlie at his home in Los Angeles. I was delighted to find that he is just as engaging and intellectually curious in person as he is on the page. He also, I discovered, had considerably more stamina than I do. Within four hours into our dinner, I was ready for bed while Charlie showed no signs of flagging. Our conversation that night was wide-ranging, touching on everything from the economics of ski resorts to raising children to the evolution of the news industry. Witnessing Charlie's prodigious intellectual breath and multidisciplinary mode of reasoning firsthand only reinforced my admiration both for the man himself and for this book. Our Charlie's Omnack is a testament to the power of thinking across disciplines. It's not just a book about investing, it's a guide to learning how to think for yourself and to understand the world around you. His insatiable appetite for learning, his uncanny ability to evaluate businesses using simple frameworks that produce more reliable analysis than complex financial statements, and his partnership with Warren Buffett have persisted for decades through boom times and bust. Although Charlie didn't invent the concept of compounding growth, his success and that of Berkshire Hathaway is a testament to its existence. The practical wisdom of Portrulli's Omnack, this ode to curiosity, generosity, and virtue will similarly compound as successive generations of entrepreneurial readers extend his lessons to their own circumstances. That is my favorite sentence in this forward written by John Collison, the co-founder of Stripe. I'm going to read it again, the practical wisdom of Portrulli's Omnack, this ode to curiosity, generosity, and virtue will similarly compound as successive generations of entrepreneurial readers extend his lessons to their own circumstances. That is a line worth double underlining, which I did. I encourage you to read Charlie's speeches and essays with an open, curious mind. This is my second favorite line in this entire book, but this section as well. You will be rewarded with insights that stay with you for a lifetime, as Charlie once said, there is no better teacher than history in determining the future. There are answers worth billions of dollars in a $30 history book. The same might be said of Portrulli's Omnack. It is the ultimate value investment. That was an excerpt from the book I'm going to talk to you about today, which is the brand new updated version coming out today of Portrulli's Omnack, the essential wit and wisdom of Charles T. Munger edited by Charlie's longtime friend Peter Kaufman and republished and made beautiful by Stripe Press. Before I jump back into the book, I just want to update you on this project that Charlie Munger collaborated with Stripe Press on. They've been working on it for the last two years. Sadly, as you know, Charlie just passed away last week. I'm going to leave the link down below, but you have to check out the new website that Stripe Press made for this updated and abridged version of Portrulli's Omnack. For the first time ever, first of all, I'm going to heavily, heavily try to convince you to order a book. I think it's an indispensable reference for anybody trying to get ahead in life. You can order the hard copy book. I think I paid $22 for my or something like that. It's a no-brainer in my opinion. But also, for the very first time ever, there's going to be a digital version, and that version is going to be available for free. There's also going to be, they recorded an interview with John Collison interviewing Charlie Munger. The video of that interview is going to be available for free on their website. And in addition to the video, the audio of that interview is going to be published. It's already available today by Timelessen to this on my friend Patrick Runs and Vest like the best podcast, which as you already know, it's one of my favorite podcasts. That audio of the conversation between John Collison and Charlie Munger is available right now on the Invest Like the Best Podcast Feed. Now I had early access to listen to that episode. I'm on my fourth listen. I took extensive notes. I will reference them throughout our conversation today. In addition to that, my friend Tamara Winter runs Strait Press, and she actually gave me the very first copy of this book. So I've had several weeks to go through and reread poor Charlie's Almanac, as you know, as you probably know, first time I read the book was all the back in 2019. It was episode 90 of Founders. And in the interview, I reread my highlights on the book, you know, dozens of times. I'm going to start with, there's a forward written for the book by Warren Buffett, and it is titled Buffett on Munger. And here's just a few highlights from here. A few of them made me laugh, but then he just warned, gives us some great advice. So he says from 1733 to 1758, Ben Franklin dispensed useful and timeless advice through poor Richard's Almanac, among the virtues extolled were thrift, duty, hard work, and simplicity. Subsequently, two centuries went by, which Ben's thoughts on these subjects were regarded as the last word. Then Charlie Munger stepped forth. And then this is a paragraph that made me laugh. Charlie consistently practiced what he preached, and oh, how he preached. Then in his will created two small filithopic funds that were designed to teach the magic of compound interest. Early on, Charlie decided that this was a subject far too important to be taught through some posthumorous project. Instead, he opted to become a living lesson in compounding, a shrewing frivolous which he defined as any expenditures that might sap the power of his example. And this is the part that made me laugh. Subsequently, the members of Charlie's family learned the joys of extended bus trips while their wealthy friends imprisoned in private jets missed these enriching experiences. I'd like to offer some advice on the choice of a business partner. Look first for someone both smarter and wiser than you are. After locating him or her, ask him not to flaunt his superiority so that you may enjoy a claim for the many accomplishments that sprang from his thoughts and advice. Tika partner who will never second guess you nor soak when you make expensive mistakes. It is fascinating. John Carlson does an excellent job in the interview with Charlie that I hope you listen to where they talk about this. This is towards the end of the conversation. He talks about like, okay, tell me about the disagreements you have and it's so remarkable how amicable and how they handled this. And Charlie just was very adaptable and unbothered if they had different views on any subjects. Tika partner who will never second guess you nor soak when you make expensive mistakes. Look also for a generous soul who will put up his own money. Finally join with someone who will constantly add to the fun as you travel a long road together. That's the same thing Charlie said over and over again. We just had so much fun. Warren and I just had so much fun back to Warren Buffett. I set out in 1959 to follow this advice slavishly. And there was only one partner who fit my bill of particulars in every way and that was Charlie. So they were partners up until they died. Up until Charlie died. So that would be 64 years by my math. And so one of the great things about this book is 80% of it is Charlie in his own words. It's probably the largest collection of just mongers own words out of any of the book that I've ever found. It definitely is the largest collection of that. But what is also really valuable I think is in addition to the forward written by Buffett who knew Charlie very well, but it's really short. There's this introduction by Peter Kaufman who was essentially like friends with Charlie for decades if I'm not mistaken. And so he's just going to give us an overview about some of the ideas that he thinks are very important. And I think it gives a great overview because 80% of the book is just transcripts, edited transcripts of these talks, these 11 talks that Charlie gave throughout his lifetime. So this is going to give a great overview. I would read this section before you don't have to read. You don't have to read this book in order really. I think of it more as a reference. In fact, in the podcast that John Carlson and Charlie did together, they mentioned the fact that a bunch of people write into Charlie and say they reread the book every year. I think that's a good idea, but you could also just reread certain sections that speak to every year. But this is the overview. So it says the quotes talks and speeches presented here are rooted in the old fashioned Midwestern values from which Charlie has become known. So there's some things that Charlie held dear, lifelong learning, intellectual curiosity, sobriety, avoidance of envy and resentment, reliability, learning from mistakes of others, perseverance, objectivity, and willingness to test one's own beliefs. And then what he says next, I think really gets to why Charlie is one of the greatest teachers that has ever lived. He's taught and inspired millions and millions of millions of people interested in business investing and how to live a good life. And it's the fact this reminds me of one of the greatest quotes that I've ever heard Steve Jobs from Steve Jobs. He says the storyteller is the most powerful person in the world. Charlie employs historical and business case studies to great effect. He makes his points with subtlety and texture, often using a story like context instead of abstract statements of theory. He regales his audience with his humorous anecdotes and poignant tales rather than with a blizzard of facts and figures. People only remember, they remember individual lines and they remember stories. We don't remember tables of data. He well knows and wise the exploits the traditional role of the storyteller as a purveyor of complex and detailed information as a result. His lessons hang together in a coherent latticework of knowledge available for recall and use when needed. That is such an important line in it echoes what I believe to be the most important sentence in the forward. Let me go back to that. The practical wisdom of poor Charlie's Omnick, this Odecareosity generosity in virtue will similarly compound as successive generations of entrepreneurial readers extend his lessons to their own circumstances. Okay, I've read that. That lied three times. Hopefully, that's the last time I read it, but I really do think it's so important. And again, the important fact here is that you're going to remember stories and that's when you're actually teaching somebody something because if they don't remember it, they can't apply it when needed. They're not going to use highly likely. You're not going to be these ideas right now, maybe not even today, maybe not next week. It could be years from now. And Charlie put his ideas and lessons into these memorable stories that you couldn't recall when needed. In fact, this was very fascinating. It was on the phone with a friend the other day. We were talking about some unusual traits that a lot of history is based on from your share. And I was like, well, I really do believe there's a positive correlation between the storytelling ability and their overall business performance. And if you go back, and this is something that other people have noticed throughout time, too, in fact, Don Valentine, the founder of Sequoia, he mentioned this and I want to read something that a quote from him that was fascinating. He says, the art of storytelling is critically important. Most entrepreneurs can't tell a story. Learning to tell a story is incredibly important because that's how the money works. Money flows as a function of stories. Okay. Charlie, it is clear throughout these talks and speeches that Charlie places a premium on life decisions over investment decisions. This is really important. And there's actually something from Socrates that popped to my mind when I got to this section. So Charlie places a premium of life decisions over investment decisions. Charlie once said, I wanted to be rich so I could be independent. Independence is the end that wealth serves for Charlie, not the other way around. I think a lot of entrepreneurs get that wrong. And they wind up having a lot more misery in their life than if they didn't. So when I got to this entire paragraph, those are only, that paragraph was no longer, but those are the two lines I wanted to bring to your attention. So there's a quote from the biography of Socrates that I read for episode 252, those fascinating. And this is education is the process whereby the ability to lead a good life is acquired. It's important not to confuse it to because I really do believe that building a great business is in service of building a great life. The mistake that is made that you see a lot of these biographies is the fact that you have that inner drive that you probably had since we were really young. And yet you sacrifice everything in service to that one goal, not realizing that a great business is just part of a great life. But the whole point of building a great business is so you can have a great life too. So I think Charlie would tell you that building a great business should be in service of building a great life. And then there's a special note to end this section. This is something I've talked about, I think, on all the other six podcasts I've made about Charlie. Charlie's redundancy in expressions and examples is purposeful. For the kind of deep fluency he advocates, he knows that repetition is the heart of instruction. I think that speaks to the wisdom of picking up this book and rereading it or at least rereading sections every year. That repetition is the heart of instruction. Me and you have talked about this over and over again, repetition is persuasive as the maximum I use for that. It becomes very, very obvious if you study any of the great advertising agency founders. They talk about this over and over again. They were in the business of figuring out what makes people buy products, what makes, how you can influence other people and they say over and over again that repetition is persuasive. You see the same thing with Charlie Munger. He'll repeat a lot of the same ideas and usually in different stories, sometimes in the very same story throughout the talks, even though the talks are given over multiple decades. And one person you'll know that Charlie talks about and repeats his admiration for a lot is his grandfather. And it struck me that the role that Charlie's grandfather played in his family, I've inspired not only Charlie's personal conduct, but it's the role that he wanted to play for his kids and grandkids as well. So I'm just going to read a few lines here because this really tells you when you see who somebody admires, you can kind of tell what's important to them. And I think Charlie would tell you that you should strive to be dependable and reliable for your tribe of loved ones. So Charlie's grandfather was a respected federal judge. This is during the depression. This is, I'm only going to talk about this one paragraph, I think it's really important. So Charlie's immediate family, because of his grandfather, was not as affected by the depression, but some members of Charlie's extended family were and Judge Munger was such a prudent and prosperous person that he could actually help them. This is something they mentioned earlier that I did not understand. So I reread my, I went through read this book, did all my highlights, said all my notes, then I reread the highlights and notes multiple times. I didn't not understand this when I, when I got to this part, but he says something later on that the higher net worth, the more you can be of service to other people. That was very fascinating. You're going to see that happen here with Judge Munger. So it says the, this era of the depression provided real learning experiences for young Charlie Munger. He witnessed the generosity and business acumen of his grandfather as he helped rescue a small bank that was owned by Charlie's uncle Tom. So Charlie's uncle had run running this bank. He wind up loaning out a bunch of money. There's a bunch of uncollectable notes. And obviously a ton of banks failed during the depression. And so Grant, he calls Tom calls, Grandpa Munger for support. And the judge risks nearly half of his assets by exchanging his money for the bank's weak loans. This enabled Tom to open back up his doors. Charlie's grandfather eventually recovered most of his investment, but it took many, many years to do that, right? And then Judge Munger also was able to send his daughter's husband to pharmacy school and then helped him by a well-located pharmacy that had closed because of the depression, the business prospered and secured the future of Charlie's aunts. Charlie learned that by supporting each other, the Munger's weathered the worst economic collapse in the nation's history. And again, that line, he learned that by supporting each other. Really, that support came from a single formidable individual. And you can clearly see the way that Charlie loved his life. He was trying to emulate a lot of traits that he respected and admired in his grandfather. And so this section gives us like this brief overview of Charlie's life, like basically like a biographical outline. And something that Charlie repeats later in life, you talk about, you know, no matter what, life will have terrible unfair blows and you've got to be able to survive and not engage in self-pity and pick yourself back up. And what he, some of the things he's referencing is, yes, yeah, businesses are going to have all kinds of unpredictable problems. But there's a lot of problems that are more important than business and their outside of your control. And it's the death of his young son that he had to endure. He's only 29 years old when this happens. He's going through a divorce and his son is dying at the same time. Despite outward appearances, always not sunny in Charlie's world. His marriage was in trouble and he and his wife were getting divorced. Charlie learned that his adored son Teddy was terminally ill with leukemia. I think he was nine years old if I'm not mistaken. In that era, before bone marrow transplant, there was no hope. A friend remembers that Charlie would visit his dying son in the hospital and then walk the streets of Pasadena crying. Charlie had to endure the worst possible thing that can happen to somebody. He's also remarried. They've got four kids. He's got to support an entire family. This is when he's a lawyer. So it says with many new responsibilities, Charlie worked hard at his law practice. Even so, his earnings were unsatisfactory to him. He wanted more than what a senior law partner would be able to earn. He sought to be like his firm's leading capitalist clients. It's not mentioned in this book, but it's mentioned in other biographies that I read about him. So he does something really smart when he's a young lawyer. I think now he's in his 30s at this point. He sold an hour of his own time back to himself and used that hour to learn things like investing in stocks and developing and investing real estate projects. So in his mid to late 30s, he starts doing a property development project for the first time. He actually worked out really well. So he had a partner on the steel. The partners earned a profit of $300,000 on a $100,000 investment. This is in 1961. He left all of his profits in his real estate ventures so that bigger and bigger projects became possible when he stopped doing real estate in 1964, at least with his partner. He had a nest egg of $1.4 million from real estate alone. During this time, he also started a new law firm. This law firm still exists this day. I read somewhere that this law firm, I think is doing like 500 million a year in revenue right now. I didn't verify that, but that's what I read. So he makes the $1.4 million from the real estate projects. Starts this new law firm. Remember, he's in his mid to late 30s. And then another important thing happens, probably the most important one of the most important thing that happens, I would say, actually around this time is Charlie's father dies. He had a good relationship with his father, but he acquired him to go back to Omaha. He's living in Los Angeles this time to administer his estate. This is when he's going to meet Warren Buffett. Warren is going to be 29 years old this time. And Charlie is 35 years old. This is one of my favorite things, such as do and think. Sit and think, because you and I Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger are these elderly, really rich guys, whether you discover them today, 10 years ago, maybe you discovered them 30 years ago, not many people knew them, but they were, but even by that time, they're in their 60s, 70s. I think they were in their 80s when I came to be introduced to them.