 suit. He looked so elegant and handsome. There were several photos of that same young man rolling a boat or hunting with a gun. The more I looked, the more mysterious I found the people and places in the photos and the more excited I became. Then it dawned on me that the young man was my father. I told my parents of the small suitcase with the many strange things in it. Hearing this, my mother became very nervous. How could you look at those things? You were only a child. She was so nervous. My father's response was different. He said calmly, what of it? If the child is interested in those things, let him look at them. Didn't it the cultural revolution end? And so for the first time in his life, Lee is now getting the information he needs to understand what was happening to him. So he talks about the fact that they studied abroad, that there's a lot of those pictures came from the Soviet Union. They told us about their childhood, their courtship. My father came back from studying the Soviet Union. My mother talked about her life. And the fact that intellectuals, which his mother was one, were sent to do farm work as some form of ideological remolding. The life they described seemed so different from mine. It was a mystery to me. They were proud of their life in the 1950s. It sounded like another world. I felt I could learn a lot from them. From that night, I felt I had a home, a father and mother. I felt I had a history and a goal. And so this is where we see the Lee's intense, intense dedication to learning, to reading. It's going to serve him wonderfully in his future career. In fact, there's the great financial times article about Lee actually might do another episode on Lee after this. But it says, Lee's mantra became accurate and complete information. I'm reading from the financial times article right now. Lee's mantra became accurate and complete information. Complete sometimes meant going to extraordinary lengths to get a read on the CEO of a company being researched by Himalaya Capital Management, such as attending their church or talking to their neighbors. This is why biographies are so important, why understanding the early life of somebody. So fundamental to understanding why they do the things they do, why the way they are. There is a talk about this. So I also watch this. He gives a lecture at Columbia Business School. Lee gives his lectures in like 2006. A big part of the lecture is Lee absolutely admonishing. These are Columbia MBA students. And Lee is lighting them up about how unprepared they are. There couldn't be more of a stark contrast between the unpreparedness of these Columbia MBA students with the way that Lee conducts research and runs his company. And why it is learning. It is reading. It is work ethic that saved Lee's life. If you grew up like he did, you have two options. Find a way out our parish. And so at this point in the story, his dad is giving him the map of a way out. You look so happy these days, Father, why? Yes, he said, I'm happy the National College entrance exams have resumed. I asked, what is a college entrance exam? He said, any young person who wants to enter college has to pass an exam. It's kind of a competition. What is a competition? I asked, competition means you work hard and society will give you a reward. I still didn't quite understand it. Is competition a good thing? Of course it is, he said. Little Lou, you should work hard to prepare for your future. Go to college and study hard, he said. Now I remember this talk and the last sentence repeated itself constantly. I now knew what I wanted to do. I want to go to college. I had found my road to paradise. I kept saying to myself, I want to go to college. I want to study. This book is going to end with the Tiananmen Square massacre and Lee literally being on the run from the Chinese government. He's put on the list, I think of the top 21 most wanted student leaders for the Tiananmen Square demonstrations and protests and everything they did. Some of them did not escape to other places like Lee was able to and as a result, they spent nine years in prison, 13 years in prison in China. When Lee tells you in the book right now, I found my road to paradise. I kept saying to myself, I want to go to college. I want to study. He moves to the United States. He can't speak English. He learns English in a summer and he becomes one of the first people in Columbia's school history to receive three degrees simultaneously. He gets a BA in economics and MBA and a JD. So it makes perfect sense with what we've gone over so far in the book with what you know about his background and then you go watch that lecture that he did a Columbia business school and he is lighting them up. He cannot believe how unprepared they are. There's a scene in a movie I think about very often. There's this movie called Seven with Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt and there's a scene in the movie where Morgan Freeman is let into a library late at night by some security guards. He's there to do some research. The security guards are sitting upstairs and instead of reading or learning or trying to improve what they know about the world, they just sit in an empty library at night and they sit around playing poker and Morgan Freeman, the character of the Morgan Freeman place, puts down his hat and says, gentlemen, I'll never understand you. All these books, the world of knowledge at your fingertips and what do you do? You sit around and play poker all night. I think of that scene when I watch Lee lose lecture to the Columbia MBA students and I think of that scene because Lee's response is the exact opposite. So there's more than a hundred thousand school children that take part in this competition and Lee comes in fourth in composition, sixth in oration and among the first 20 in math. Around this time, he's reunited with his grandmother. His grandmother, he says, was one of the first people to encourage me. She declared to everyone that I was no ordinary child. She in a previous life had been the principal of a school and part of the Legislative Committee and for that, she was sent to 20 years in prison. And so at the school he's at, he winds up meeting this woman, he says, the woman on crutches told me that she worked in the school's new library, come and see the library. It astonished me to see so many books all at once, thousands of them. I had never seen so many books in my life before. In books, listen to how he describes this, in fact, remember this is a person that just unbelievable struggle and devastation for the first, you know, 12, 15 years of his entire life, very limited view on the outside world. And this is where he realizes books is his way out in books. I could travel to every corner of the world and communicate with the people there. I would read all day long as I was doing research for this episode. It came across this wonderful quote by Charlie Munger that I think Lee Lou would agree with. Charlie says, as long as I have a book in my hand, I don't feel like I'm wasting my time. Here's another thing that Lee, now they got crazy. This is why I started with that story, Charlie Munger at the very beginning of the discussion that you weren't, you and I are having. The version of Lee Lou that's writing these words that you and I are going over does not know Charlie Munger doesn't know if it's existence. Sure, so I'll, he's going to in the future have a 20-year partnership with them. Listen to what Lee, that version of Lee is describing this unfettered access to a library, what that's doing for him. Most of the friends I made in books, Charlie says, reading biographies means you're making friends with the eminent dead. They describe it the exact same way. That blew my mind. So this reading continues into what he calls senior middle school, which I think is like our version of high school in America. And so he's reading biographies. Specifically, he's reading about biographies of scientists. So he's reading the Adam in my family, which is by Enrico Fermi's wife, which tells the life story of her husband. And he's also reading about Albert Einstein and Albert Einstein in his Olympia Club. So he goes, oh, I think we should have a Chinese Olympia Club to read and discuss the problems of our generation. It's development, the reforms, and China and its future. So this group would read and write and meet. It says the group met for the first time. We decided to call it stream because both of our quietness and persistence would flow like a stream. This group must be kept secret because the present educational system suppressed human nature. Students were slaves and teachers were gods. And so you were not allowed to question them. You were not allowed to question is what you're being told true. And so one of his teachers that take a liking to Lee realizes that you have to get out of China. David Ogrivi has a great quote where he says talent is most likely to be found among non-conformist dissenters and rebels. Lee is definitely a non-conformist at dissent or in a rebel and that's very dangerous in China. And so originally Lee is studying physics. He eventually changes to economics, but his teacher tells him you have talents in physics, but you cannot study here in China. You should go to the United States study and research, need an atmosphere of free inquiry. And so as this conversation continues to realize that his teacher is giving him great advice that he did not follow. He had a tremendous variety of books and magazines, but why should he still be reading when he was already so well read? Lee didn't understand and this is something he talks about the compounding nature of knowledge. So he says one night he told me a story. I was born in a peasant family in a remote village. This is going to sound like Lee's life story. I was born in a peasant family in a remote village for generations. My family tilled the land. The only thing I could offer was my youth and vigor. I could work hard and study well. So I only slept four or five hours a day and I read continuously. Though I was in a remote village, I spent all my money on books. I realized there was another world outside this one. He sighed in our country. What you like, what you want to do and what you get to do are all different. Hence why he's telling me to go to the United States. Each one of us is but a small part of a big machine in society. Only those who have power can decide what role each of us can play in the machine. And Lee is very similar to this teacher. He's like, you know, all I have is youth and vigor. I could work hard and study well. So I'm just going to dedicate my life and really go after it. And we see the lead as the same thing. I drew a drew up a detailed plan for myself. There were three months left before the exam every morning. I got up at 4.45 from five until six. I studied for an hour from six until six thirty. I ran to school as exercise and then reviewed what I had studied in the previous hour. I then stayed at school all day at nine thirty. I ran home at nine thirty p.m. That is reviewing the day's study at home. I ate something and worked until midnight. My desire to meet the challenge grew. I knew that I would pass soon. The results were announced for each school. I was fifth in my school and I knew I would get into a good university. So that is the end of the first half of the book. I recommend if you can get a copy, hit your hands on a copy of the book, definitely read the first half of the book up until he goes to college. The second half is about becoming much more politically active. And then it ends with the Tiananmen Square massacre and Lee having to flee for his life. So I'm going to pick it up right there. Television, radio and ubiquitous loudspeakers all kept repeating. Citizens of Beijing stay in your homes tonight. Students return to your colleges. The army is going to clear out Tiananmen Square tonight. Citizens of Beijing stay in your homes tonight. I saw the army start to march towards the square. People tried to stop them with their bodies. Soldiers push their way forward. Bayonets raised. A girl student from Beijing University went up to the soldiers and said the students aren't rioters but patriots. A soldier thrust his bayonet into her chest and she fell down dead. People ran over to her. The tanks kept coming and coming and opened fire. Everywhere people were dropping. People could not believe that the government could have shot at its own people. The tanks never stopped and they ran over the bodies. The soldiers were mad. They killed whoever was in their way. Hundreds of armed soldiers charged the crowd. Gunshots created chaos. The north side of the square was a sea of fire. Dozens of tanks entered the square. All the tents were being smashed under them. There were still hundreds of people in them. They had gone to sleep. Thinking the worst would be that the police would haul them on to a bus and send them back to college. Now they were being ground to pieces. People shouted names, parents trying to find their sons and daughters. My mind became stone. Only one thought was chiseled on it. Why am I still alive? And so now everybody's fleeing and trying to run from Tionna Square. And Li says over the next few days I stayed at a different place each night. The government put my name on the list of wanted people. Our descriptions were issued to customs, railway stations, bus stations, neighborhood committees. Our photos were posted all over the country and shown on television. And so this time Hong Kong is still British colony. So Li actually uses a smuggling route that was established to bring contraband of western goods from Hong Kong. And so he uses that route to escape China. And he describes the last day in China. Don was approaching. I came out of the basement. It took a deep breath. I would not go to prison. I would escape. I looked back on my life so far. I had grown from an unwanted child to a fighter in Tionna Square. And now it was a criminal wanted by the government. I had experienced oppression and rebelled against it. I didn't want to give in. I wanted to escape. I didn't know what kind of life awaited me. I just knew that I was on my way. That is how the book ends. This is when he starts a new life in New York at 23 years old. 23 year old Li Liu had no idea. Couldn't possibly have known what lay ahead in his future. Highly recommend reading the book. If you can get a copy of the book, I will leave a link down below. If you buy the book using that link, you'll be supporting the podcast at the same time. I'm in the process of doing research on another Li Liu episode. This all about how he thinks about investing and company building, what he learned from Buffett and Munger. If I can get enough material to make an episode that's worthy of your time, that'll be the next episode I do. But in the meantime, that is 362 books down 1000 ago.