 the money back. And so she calls her dad from the store. Her dad just happens to be with Sam. Sam gets on the phone and he listens to the customer. And her name is Sarah Bell. And so he listens to Sarah Bell and he goes, okay, let me talk to the manager. Sam talks to the manager, then the manager suddenly gets really, really nice and gives the money back. And so later on, Sam's friend was apologizing, oh, sorry, you know, to disrupt you, getting on the phone with my daughter. And he goes, no, I'm glad that Sarah called that the way he learned on that phone call had been it's been worth it's weight in gold. I told the manager that I wanted him to bring that pair of shorts to our Saturday morning meeting. I made him stand up and hold up those shorts. Then I asked him, what is our motto? And he said satisfaction guaranteed. You know, every once in a while, you have to refresh their memory. This constant flow of information from the front lines, from the people actually serving the customers from this customers themselves is something that Sam Walton definitely believed in. Here's another fascinating idea. This one definitely surprised me. And I think it's another example of Sam copying good ideas. I mentioned earlier that his father-in-law played a huge role in his life, you know, having a successful businessman entrepreneur as a father-in-law to give advice to. Not only did he loan the first $25,000 for that first store, but he saved them untold amount of money in the way that he had him set up the estate planning. The Forbes 400 list assumed that Sam Walton owned all that Walmart stock turned out he had given it away years before it had any value. And he got that idea from his father-in-law. When and how and why he and Helen shared their business resources with their four children is one of the more fascinating untold Walton stories. The children have each owned one-fifth of their parent's stock and property since 1954. Sam and Helen created the trust that set this up when Ron was 10 and Alice was only five. Doing this kind of estate planning so early in the game was urged on by Sam through his father-in-law L.S. Ropson, who had earlier done precisely the same thing in giving Helen and her siblings equal shares in the vast ranch that he assembled in Oklahoma. Mr. Ropson was a banker and a lawyer and he was pretty smart, Sam said. I could see it was the thing to do. And this all took place four decades ago. And so his son is talking about this. At that time, all dad and mother had was a variety store or two. Our shares then couldn't have been worth more than $5,000 each at the time the book was printed, which is in 1990. Each of the kids were worth about $2 billion because of this. So by turning over ownership of 80% of his holdings to his children so early on, he avoided any substantial gift or inheritance taxes. And so his father-in-law put it best. The best way to reduce paying estate taxes is to give your assets away before they appreciate. All right, so let's talk about speed and soul price. This is one of my favorite stories in his entire book, something that Sam Walton said over and over again, that he took more ideas with soul price than any single other person. Think about how relentless the sky was on studying everything that everybody else was doing. He's like, this is the person I learned the most from. In fact, that a cool experience happened. You might be interested in this. I read soul prices autobiography. It's not my autobiography. His biography was written after soul price passed away by his son Robert Price. That is episode 304 in that episode. I talk about how soul price is the most influential retailer of all time. Sam Walton learned from him, Jeff Bezos, Jim Synagol, the founder of Costco, the founders of Home Depot. The list goes on and on and on about how influential soul price was. Anyways, I put that episode out. Robert Price, soul's price is son. The author of that book listened to the episode and emailed me. He loved the episode and he thought it honored his father and his father should be honored. If you have an episode, go back and listen to it and try to find that book. It's incredible. Soul price was a remarkable man. So let's talk about soul price and speed. Look how fast Sam Walton is moving. Okay, so he's got this idea. He's got one more study successful. He's never, we just heard somebody else say earlier. He doesn't, he never gets fat and happy with his success. That never has never happened. Didn't happen in the past and didn't happen up until the day he died. And so he's always looking for, you know, I believe in Walmart and discounters, but there's always people coming with new ideas and he realizes that soul price is going to invent an entire new category. And so it says on a January morning in 1983, Sam Walton flies to San Diego to investigate a new wrinkle in the discount business, a membership wholesale club. What we think of as Costco and what which obviously turns into Sam's club as well. The idea originated five years earlier by a savvy California entrepreneur named Soul Price. Soul Price was making a stounding success by selling merchandise that only a 10% above manufacturer's prices and getting rich. If Soul price could do that, Sam Walton figured he could too. The wholesale club idea was good, extremely good. And so Sam goes back to Benville and he's like, okay, we're just going to do the exact same thing that Soul Price is doing out on San Diego. And we're going to do it. We're going to call Sam's club and we're going to start right now. This is insane. First visit January 1983, okay? January, he does his first visit April, the same year he opens the first Sam's club in the next eight months before the end of 1983. Okay? So January first, he visits the first one. Doesn't have any by the end of that same calendar year. He's got three. Then the next 12 months, he opens eight more within three years of stepping foot in Soul Price's Price Club. Sam now has 23 Sam's club wholesale stores and he's doing $776 million. That's insane. From nothing to almost a billion dollars in sales in three years. And then within seven years, he's got 105 of these things and they're doing 5 billion a year. Extreme patience, coupled with extreme intolerance for slowness. That is the career of Sam Walton. He's going to take a sign and make sure this thing works. And when it works, he pours gasoline on it. And so it's this extreme bias for action that runs throughout this entire book. It's what Jeff Bezos says. Jeff Bezos said that two of the things that he learned most from Sam Walton's autobiography that he applied to the early days of Amazon is through Galilee and a bias of action. And I think this extreme bias of action is a great place to close and we'll close in Sam's own words. Our method of success as I see it is action with a capital A and a lot of hard work mixed in. As we've said throughout the years, do it, try it, fix it. It's not a bad approach and it works. There are a lot of people out there who have some great ideas. But nothing in the world is cheaper than a good idea without any action behind it. And that is where I'll leave it. If you have not yet read Sam Walton's autobiography, I would read Sam Walton's autobiography first. If you have a top 10 list of, you know, entrepreneur or biographies, autobiographies, that Sam Walton's autobiography has got to be in that list. So if you haven't read that one yet, I would highly recommend doing that. You can also listen to the episode I did on the last episode I did on Sam Walton's autobiography is episode 234. If you already listen to the podcast, listen to it again and read the book, then I would highly recommend getting this book as well. Sam Walton is far too important of an entrepreneur to only read one book around about. So if you buy this book using the link that's in the show notes of your practice player, also available at FoundersPotkist.com. You'll be supporting the podcast at the same time. That is 354 books down 1,000 to go and I'll talk to you again soon.