 Same boredom and frustration, triggered ideas that eventually brought him billions of dollars. He was struck with the realization that if he was competent enough to operate separate stores in two towns successfully, one at three, four, or maybe even a dozen, he could see the possibility of his own chain of five-in-dime stores. One evening he heard the drone of a small airplane overhead, in a light flash in his brain. So he goes down to the local airport and he's like, maybe he was a faster way, kind of like charterer plane, could somebody fly me between Bentonville and Newport. And it says, for a reasonable fee, he chartered a pilot to take him to Bentonville, the eight-hour road trip, strength to a 90-minute flight. This gave Sam the answer he was looking for without this. His Walmart phenomenon never would have been able to see the light of day. And so it's no surprise that the Bentonville store starts to do really well because Sam's paying attention every single thing. And he's just has this idea. Now, I guess I need to back up. He is constantly, until they IPO, he is constantly under-financed and under-capitalized. He actually talks about that in his autobiography, so I want to read from his autobiography again before I pick this story back up. He says, many of our best opportunities were created out of necessity, the things that we were forced to learn and do because we started out under-financed and under-capitalized. In these remote small communities, it contributed mightily to the way we've grown as a company. Had we been capitalized, or had we been the offshoot of a large corporation the way I wanted to be? That's whatever offense earlier. We tried to give away the idea to Walmart and they said, no. We might never try all these small little towns that we went into in the early days. It turned out that the first big lesson we learned was that there was much, much more business out there in small town America than anybody, including me, had ever dreamed of. So his idea at the very beginning, this is the good thing. He had to prove the concept over many, many years. Then once he knew it was working, he poured gasoline on these promising sparks. But his idea first is like, let's get one store up. That store's profitable. Let's take the profits, dump that into another store. Then get that store profitable, then dump it into another store. And so that is why the planes become so important. These are not corporate jets. He's flying around. There's a bunch of almost like very close calls. You know, Sam Walton was a kind of reckless flyer, but thankfully nothing happened in his 40 years of flying. But without these small little sessons and little planes, they could have never gone and traveled to all these stores because that leads me to the next thing I want to talk to you about. It's not just that, you know, what JC Penney was doing back in the day, going to all of his 1600 stores. Same thing Sam would do when he has this chain of five at times. Same thing Sam would do when he has this chain of walmart. He did it for every single one of his competitors. He visited more retail stores than anybody else in history. He does it for the stores. And then his autobiography says that he would also show up at the headquarter, like the corporate headquarters, without an appointment. And he says, if you just show up and you ask more often than not, they would let you in. And then he would ask him questions about pricing, distribution, and all this other stuff. He's like, it was another form of education. And so he's doing this in the 1950s. He's going to like Oklahoma and Arkansas in all these little country towns. And he says he studied how they did things. He was ready to bounce on any successful little trick they had and would copy it. And so when I got to this section of the book, the two things happened. One, I had like a big smile on face because I just think it's hilarious. I love people that are truly dedicated to what they're doing. And I always say one of my favorite maxims is this actions express priority. You demonstrate to other people what's important to you. Not by what you say, not by what you believe, but what you do actions express priority. And so you got Sam running around all over the South, visiting every single store. And so that just made me smile and laugh. And I love people like the second thing that came to mind is because I've become friends with Mr. Beast. Mr. Beast is like the biggest creator on the internet, biggest YouTuber. He's got like a billion followers across all these platforms. I actually flew to Mr. Beast headquarters and spent seven hours with him. His top team, one of my friends is a major investor in Mr. Beast companies as well. And I heard a story that just screams like this is something that Sam Walton would do. And so Mr. Beast comes back from doing, he's like a 17 hour flight or something like that. Lands back into the United States needs to do another connecting flight to get back to like the remote area where his headquarters is. And instead of jumping on another flight, he maps out. There's like a 500 mile distance between where he's at and where his home is. And Mr. Beast chocolate company, Feastables has a massive deal with Walmart. And so he does instead of flying home, he maps out every single Walmart in like a 500 mile radius. And decides, hey, I'm going to drive, you know, you can take a couple of our flight or you do like a 15 hour drive. I think this is over multiple days. And he visited every single Walmart in between where he was and where he was going. And so at every single store visit, he would find room for improvement. And one of the funniest things I heard was when in some cases in the front of the store, it'd be it looked like all the Feastables was sold out. And then he'd pull up. He's like, well, my system says that you have inventory. So he would go to the back of the store and he would find the inventory in the back. And he'd literally carry it to the front so he could get more sales. I think that is what Sam Walton would do. I just love that idea where you have this crazy, determined madman in the 1950s, driving through all these little towns, inspecting every single retail store that he finds, going to the headquarters, dropping in on the CEO and a thomter, and just riddling them with questions and using this as a form of education. And then you see 70 years later, the same kind of determined individual doing something very similar. I just love that part. So as Sam is expanding, he's opening new stores. I already told you earlier, he literally lifts that idea from JC Penny. He's like, okay, I can't be here, but he knew that you had to have a single, like single threaded leadership. There has to be one person that is completely responsible for the performance of the store when Sam is not there. So that's when he says, Hey, I'll give you 25% of all the profits. And then here's a fascinating story for you. Dude, this is what I love about boggings. We have some of the smartest, most productive people that ever live. And the boggings, their life stories are full of them making mistake after mistake, after mistake. So as he's expanding, he comes across this brand new phenomenon. At this point in American history, there is no such thing as the shopping center. And so as he's looking for locations to expand, he comes across, I think it's the second shopping center ever built in the United States. And he's just like, oh my God, this is this concept is genius. And so he gets distracted. He is already building a small, but very successful variety store, five in dime chain. And he takes a detour from something that's already working, says, I'm going to develop shopping centers. I have a line for this, what he's doing, because I did this other day, I was on the phone with my friend Jared. And he was explaining about this other idea I had for another podcast. And he completely shut it down. And he used the blackjack analogy. He's like, don't split tents. Sam Walton's split tents, I'll cut right to the punchline. We lost their money in left town. So he had like a one to two year detour, where he took his eye off. The thing that was working, he got distracted. He gave into distraction. And it cost him the opportunity to cost his time and a bunch of his money. So now he is back fully dedicated, fully focused on expanding his burgeoning retail empire. I love scrappy people. I love relentless, your sourceful people. I love people who don't take no for an answer. And so Sam is always on the lookout for a new, exciting merchandise that he can stock in his stores at this time. Hula hoops is like, this is this like phenomenon spreading all across the country. The main like manufacturers of Hula hoops will not sell to these small little merchants because he's tiny at this time. And so Sam's like, okay, cool. You want to sell to us? That's fine. We're going to make our own. So he's starting to realize like, what is a hula hoop? It's like this little piece. It's colored plastic pipe where there's a connector at the end. He's like, we're just going to make our own. So after the store's closed, him and a bunch of other people, they get together and they start making several thousand of these a night. So that's the first part of this high agency relentless resourcefulness. This is hilarious to me. Remember, Sam does not have a lot of money. He's under finance, under capitalized for a long time all the way until Walmart goes public and Walmart doesn't even exist yet. And so they're making them at one central location, but they should distribute them throughout all the stores that they have, right? Sam didn't even have a truck. So how's he going to do this? He has a car, you know what he does? He sets up a John boat. A like 12 foot little John boat behind his car and loads the John boat with all the hula, thousands of hula hoops that they spent the night making. And then he drives it around to his stores and a car and using a John boat as a trailer. And the end result is this line. The hula hoops are so popular that you couldn't keep them in stock. And so there's a combination of two ideas here that I think are really important. Number one, doing things that others were not doing, lead to unexpected success. And two goes back to that quote that I read from Sam's autobiography. The fact that many of the best opportunities were created at a necessity because we were so under finance, we were so under capitalized, we had no idea just how large these businesses can be built in what, you know, these towns, these towns were ignored. And so they arrived at this very valued idea through trial and error. They're just testing a bunch of things. And so here's a description of one of the things they found out that the larger they made the store, the more money they made. The decisions were made for Walmart long before Walmart as a company was developed. Back in the Ben Franklin days, we learned so much. And so they use one example of a store where they make a slightly bigger, slightly larger Ben Franklin store. And how much sales grew as a result of just having a larger store surprised them. And so this store, the example that they're using was in this little town called St. Robert. So St. Robert showed us how much volume was there if we went into much larger units in small communities and push the merchandise. We became the first independent variety chain in the country to try large stores in small towns. We were doing an amazing amount of business in a 13,000 square foot store, which is totally out of character for a town of just 2,000 people. We found that we could do a million dollars in each variety store that was unheard of. And so it is through this constant experimentation, the fact that he is still relentlessly visiting every single retailer everywhere he's at that he discovers what is going to be his life's work, which is discounting. The concept behind discounting at this time is very counterintuitive that you lower the price, you lower the margin, but you'll make more money because you sell more. And all throughout his autobiography, all throughout this book, every single interview that you'll see with Sam, even though he didn't do a bunch of interviews, he talks about the fact that, you know, I have no shame in admitting this. Like if I would, I was searching for good ideas. And if I found a good idea, if I found a competitor that had a better idea than I did, I would just adopt, he was always, he didn't care of the, of the origination source of the idea. He just wanted the very best idea. So he's like, he says, if they had something good, we copied it. And it is through this that he says I was totally fascinated by the idea of discounting. And when he discovers discounting in the 1960s, he's blown away. He winds up studying this guy named Irwin Chase, who starts his company called Anne and Hope. They only had six stores, but they're doing $250 million a year in sales. So all throughout the early 1960s, it says there was no discount store in existence between 1960 and 1962 that did not get a visit from Sam Walton. And it is through this that he discovers that another person had studied Anne and Hope too. And they had studied it before him. There is this guy named Harry Blair Cunningham. He is the one that comes up with the concept for Kmart. And so Kmart was a dominant player way before Walmart. And so Sam Walton is looking back on this. He's saying what about to be two in 1990 after he's already beaten Kmart. He says I've always had the greatest admiration for Harry Cunningham, because when he threw that business down, that thing was 10 or 20 years ahead of its time. And he did it better than anybody else. What I did later was take pieces of it, meaning take pieces of Kmart and make our Walmart as much like it as we could. The difference was, and this is the fascinating thing that happens over and over again, is Kmart took the discounting idea and they set it up, set up shop in major cities. Walmart looked at that and was like well, why would we compete head on with somebody who's already doing that? We'll take the discount idea and set up in tiny, tiny little towns. And so back to what Sam was saying. At the start, we were so amateurish and so, so far behind. Kmart just ignored us. They let us stay out there while we developed and learned our business. If they had jumped on us, I hate to think of that. But we were protected by our small town market. It would have been unthinkable for them to have tried to put a competing store in a small town. They gave us a 10 year period to grow. And then he also brings with the fact that they got rich and successful and fat and lazy. They were self-satisfied with what they had accomplished. Sam Walton was never, to the day he died, was never like that. They were self-satisfied with what they had accomplished. They thought they could roll over everybody and they woke up one day and found out that the world had changed. And so now Sam knows. He's like, I cannot stay in the variety store business. I cannot stay in this fine and dye business. Discounting is going to roll over everything. Let's get ahead of this. And this is where, this is where he goes. So keep in mind, I guess you should back up. He's 43 years old when he's trying to make this transition. He's got 13 of these variety stores, right? These Ben Franklin franchisees. Our franchisees. Over the last 11 years, he's built 13 of these stores. So he goes, this is what I meant when he goes and tries to give away the idea for Walmart. He's going to go to the headquarters of Ben Franklin in Chicago and he's going to pitch this idea to them. And this is the idea that turns out to be Walmart. I'm going to read this whole section to you because it's so fascinating to me. His proposal was audacious, certainly unacceptable. He suggested that the variety store franchisers leap into the front line of the booming discount business. I think that kind of store will fit in the rural markets just as well in the major metropolitan markets. Sam said, you should franchise them and I will be your guinea pig. Imagine Sam Walton pitching you an idea of a brand new business that's growing like a weed that is clearly the future and he's like, I will be your partner and operator. And you say no. That's incredible. The Ben Franklin executives exchanged sour looks. Sam went on. You're going to have to cut your wholesale prices instead of making 20 to 25% profit off the merchandise that you sell to your retailers. You're going to have to be satisfied with about 12 and a half percent. So almost half they blew up. They blew up at Sam to these sophisticated and experienced businessmen and their tailored suits and customs shoes in Chicago. Okay. It looked like the tail was trying to wag the dog. What was this Arkansas country fellows experience with only a dozen or so stores compared to their thousand outlets and nearly a century of retailing know how we have to pause here because this is such an important point. You have to think about the incentives of the people that you're selling to Sam Walton is trying to sell to them. So the greatest example that got lodged in my brain many years ago. No one is ever eager to fix a cash machine that isn't broken. And the person that put that idea into my brain, the fact that you have to think about the incentives of the people that you're selling to. And no one is ever eager to fix a cash machine that isn't broken is in James Dyson's autobiography. He invents the world's first cyclonic vacuum cleaner. That means his vacuum cleaner doesn't need bags. So before that, if you own a vacuum cleaner, you're constantly having to buy more vacuum bags, right? What does James Dyson do? The first person he tries to go and sell his invention to is a company that is making 500 million a year selling vacuum bags. He's like, oh, they're going to see how superior a cleaning machine that my vacuum is compared to theirs. That is irrelevant. You cannot sell a bagless vacuum cleaner to people to make 500 million a year selling vacuum bags. You cannot sell the idea of discounting at a lower margin and saying, hey, sell me your stuff at 12.5% and selling instead of selling it to me at 25%. How do you think they paid for those tailored suits and those custom shoes? That's 25% margin. And so they laugh them out of the room. And then there's a great story that is told in this book. It's also told in Sam Walton's autobiography. The very next day, one of the Ben Franklin executives goes and checks out. He's like, I maybe I should go check out this new came our thing that this crazy Sam Walton Vella is talking about. And here's a description of what happens. He got a surprise. Sam Walton was there ahead of him. Here he was, 25 miles from our office. And he was talking to a clerk. He was writing in a little notebook. And at one point, he got down on his knees to look under the display cabinet. I said, Mr. Walton, what are you doing? And he said, it's just part of the education process. Don, I'm still learning. And so Sam talks about this time. It's not like he thought discounting was the future, right? But he wasn't sure if he could do it. Like he was going to succeed it. He knew he could, he was really good at the variety store business. But he decides I'm just going to experiment. He's constantly experimenting. And he talks about this way. He describes this point of his life. He has a great term on. He says, I was thrushing around for the right rate of go. It was uncertain. But one thing that he knew is that discounting does not work if you have a high cost structure. Discounters must. They must have low cost. And there's like, all these indicators that Walmart might be more successful than their competitors early on. It was because even after they go public, they have like the lowest cost to sales ratio in the entire industry. And so how dedicated was Sam to keeping costs low? Well Walmart is called that in part because fewer letters means cheaper signs on the outside of a store. And so Sam and one of his executives have this list of names and they're trying to figure out what are we going to call this new concept? You know, I have to go out on my own. The Ben Franklin guys, they don't want anything to do with this. So I'm going to do it anyways. Which one of those do you think we should call it? They study the list for a few minutes and all were long names each made up of three or four words. And so as executive says, well Sam, you had me buying the letters to go up on our Ben Franklin stores and I know how much they cost and how much they cost to repair and how much to light these letters. It's expensive to put that many words in a name. And the shortest name on the list was Walmart. And so Jeff Bezos has the saying he says we know from our past experiences that big things start small. The biggest oak starts from an acorn. If you want to do anything new, you've got to be willing to let that acorn grow into a little sapling and then into a small tree. And then maybe one day it'll be a big business on its own. Listen to the description of the very first Walmart. The business that is going to generate for the Walton family quarter of a trillion dollars of wealth. The first Walmart is in a small town and is only 16,000 square feet. It is an immediate success from the very first year. What do they consider success? $700,000 in total sales. Which may seem like a small number. But from that day, from day one, the store, that furry first Walmart store for the next 15 years has a consistent 30% growth in sales. It made a profit from the very beginning. So then he opens the second one. He invites this guy named David Glass, who is going to many years into the future is going to become the CEO of Walmart. Sam tried to recruit him really early. In fact, it takes him a decade to get David Glass to say yes. So he invites David Glass out to the second opening of the opening of the second Walmart. And this is what David Glass said. David Glass thought that Sam might have lost his marbles with all this discount store foolishness. It would surprise him if this kind of store had any future. It was the worst retail store I had ever seen. Sam had brought a couple of trucks of watermelons in and stacked them on the sidewalk. He also had a donkey ride out in the parking lot.