 So the book that I want to talk to you about today is Sam Walton, the inside story of America's richest man, and is written by Vance Trimble. This book is way less known than Sam's incredible autobiography. In fact, this book came out a few years before Sam's autobiography is published at the end of the book. Sam Walton is still alive. And what is fascinating is how the book begins. And it talks about the fact that, before the early 80s, there was no such thing as the Forbes 400 list. And so when the very first Forbes 400 list comes out, Sam is on it. And then within a few years, he obtains the number one spot and just holds it year after year after year. But before that happened, for the first 60 years of Sam Walton's life, he was not nationally known. He says he was in the shadows. He was off the beaten track, just building his incredible business empire. And so by the time the Forbes 400 list has come around, Sam has already built this $6.3 billion fortune. And so the book opens with all of these reporters in the early 1980s, and is sending on Benville Arkansas to try to figure out who Sam Walton is and how he accumulated such a massive fortune. And then in their research, they give a great overview of his life. And so it says he grew up in Missouri in the Depression. He worked his way through college, lived a clean Christian life, served state side in World War II, married an Oklahoma banker's daughter, opened up his first five-in-dime store in Backwater, North Central Arkansas, and raised four healthy kids. And then this is my favorite part of this entire section. Pretty darn ordinary. But only on the surface, Sam Walton underneath was no ordinary man. He was a genius in business with an iron mind and unwilling to compromise any of his carefully thought out principles. And one of the most remarkable things about Sam is just how simple his idea really was. And he says it's a very simple idea. I'm going to buy cheap. I'm going to sell low. I'm going to do that every day. And I'm going to do it with a smile and focus on service. And one of the benefits that Sam Walton had early in his career was that there's a tendency for people to confuse a simple idea with an ordinary person. And Charlie Munger, who extensively studied Sam Walton, hit upon why a simple idea taken very seriously is so powerful in business. Charlie said, in business, we often find that the winning system goes almost ridiculously far in maximizing and are minimizing one or a few variables. And so most of what I want to talk to you about today is just how long it took Sam to find his path and how messy it was. At the beginning of one of the greatest businesses that has ever been created, I read a little while ago that if you take his family's net worth today, it's almost a quarter of a trillion dollars. And yet it took Sam Walton 20 years of experimenting inside of retailing before he brushes about that's the word he uses and finds the idea slowly but surely through trial or finds the idea that turns into warmer. Before I get there, I just want to point out a few things that happen in his childhood that I think gives you an idea of the kind of person that we're dealing with. There's a few traits that appear in his early life that he never let's go of a sense of duty. He's extremely disciplined and then he had unbelievable levels of endurance. And so this is a description of Sam when he was in high school. Sam was going off for football and basketball learning to play tennis, making a's and friends grinding away on merit badges in hopes of becoming an eagle scout, regularly attending Sunday school and working odd jobs such as mowing the grass and delivering newspapers. He was following the example of his dad. His dad had a life motto that could not be more simple. It is only three words and it's the same word over and over again. Work work work. His dad taught his sons that you were supposed to have a fierce work ethic. He would not tolerate any of his sons not being industrious. They had to be industrious. They had to be ambitious and they had to be decent people. And so here's a little more about Sam and high school and it goes back to this idea that do not confuse a simple idea with an ordinary person. He was quarterback of the undefeated football team. He let it in basketball. He was president of the student body. He was awarded the superlative the most versatile boy. He was in every club and organization and he was active. The description continues. He was a hard worker. He was optimistic. He felt that the world was something that he could conquer. He didn't waste time. He was always busy doing something and that's something that he's going to continue for his entire career. The fact that he's always working. He hated wasting time and he's intolerant of slowness. And I don't think you can understand Sam Walton until you understand the effect that the Great Depression had on Sam. He grew up in the Great Depression. He was born in 1918. And so he's old enough to see the effects, the financial effects and it actually leads to his parents' divorce, which is obviously very rare at that time, that time period. And he talks a little bit about seeing his father struggle through this time. He says, my father quit the mortgage company and went into business for himself in the real estate and insurance industry. Then came the Depression. Dad's business went down the drain. And so then his dad is moving the family around looking for opportunity. And yet for the next 10 years, this is the prime of his father's life. They make no economic progress. They are distinctly lower middle class right hovering around the poverty line. And so Sam and his brother Bud get jobs to try to help out the family. And there's a line in the book that I think is very important to understanding the kind of personality that Sam had. And he said that the Depression was a big leveler of people. Sam chose to rise above it. He was determined to be a success. And so when I was reading this section, what immediately popped into my mind is one of my favorite ideas. It comes from Paul Graham. And he was asking, what is the better predictor of company success, success in business? Is it determination or is it intelligence? And Paul's answer to this is incredible. He says it turns out it is much more important to be determined than smart. If you imagine this hypothetical person that is 100 out of 100 for smart and 100 out of 100 for determination. And then you start taking away determination. It doesn't take very long until you have this ineffectual but brilliant person. Whereas if you take someone who is super determined and you take away smartness, eventually you get to a guy who owns a lot of taxing medallions or a trash hauling business, but is still rich. It is important to note it only takes one person on the founding team to be super determined. And the reason I bring that up and the reason I think it's really important, and especially in this section, is because, okay, we see he's got this fierce work ethic, right? He is determined to be a success. He is not going to allow his family to hover over the poverty line. Think about how insane if you were mapping out. I was thinking about this this morning. If you were mapping out the family tree and the trajectory, the economic trajectory of the Walton family before Sam Walton comes on the scene, you would see middleing success. And then all of a sudden there's this one data point, this generational inflection point where it just skyrocketed. Today, that family, present day, 100 years after Sam Walton was born, you know, they have a quarter of a trillion dollars, $250 billion dollars. But 100 years ago, they were straddling the poverty line. The difference was one person, this super determined person, made that difference. He changed the trajectory of his entire family for generations. And so it starts with determination, but in this hypothetical situation, it's not that we have to remove points for intelligence. It took Sam to find where he can be intelligent. What is the field that he can be the most intelligent? If you have a list of the greatest retailers of all time, Sam Walton has to be at the top of that list. And the reason I recommend if you haven't read his autobiography, get it immediately, get the audio book, get the paper rock, whatever you have to do. And then if you've already read that book by this book, because you will see it took decades of him applying its determination and then matching it with 100 of 100 intelligence in a specific field. And it's important to understand this was not planned out. Sam had no idea. He had one idea, one idea of what his future career could be when he was around college age. He's like, maybe I should be present in the United States. That's another personality trait that he has. He's going to aim straight to the top. He has to be, I think he calls it being like the top of the heap or the top of the pile. He's just has this ruthless competitive drive as well. But he did not have this dream to be a retailer and he was a boy. He stumbled into it. And so let's go there right now. He actually gets a job at JC Penny. This is an extremely important turning point in his life. And you're going to see a lot of the lessons that he's going to learn from JC Penny. He applies later on to Walmart. And so let me just tell you that like in case you don't know, like this shocked me because I knew what JC Penny was. It was around when I was a kid. I don't even know if there exists any more. But in 1940, right where we are in the story, JC Penny has almost 1,600 stores and they're doing 300 million a year in revenue. And the founder is still actively involved even though he's in his 60s. His name is John Cash Penny. Sam is actually going to meet John and get a lesson directly from him. So Sam gets his job. He's being paid $85 a month. Remember that for this upcoming story about sharing incentives with store managers, which I'll get to in one second. But the first idea I have to point out to you that Sam's going to use for Walmart is the fact that the company strength that JC Penny had built 1,600 stores avoiding big cities. This is exactly what Sam's going to do for Walmart. And he focused on small towns. You're talking about towns of 2,000 people, 6,000 people, 8,000 people. That's the first idea. I was like, oh, maybe there's a lot of more business out in these small towns than we thought. The second idea. JC of JC Penny is constantly in the stores. He's traveling around in the stores wanting to know what's going on. Sam does this his entire life. And it is one of these store visits to the store that Sam is working in. Sam's around 22 years old at the time that he gets this lesson from this wiser, more successful retail legend. He's 65 years old. Says the customer came in and bought something from Sam. And while he wrapped it up for her, JC Penny was observing the transaction closely. I finished wrapping and tying the package and the lady left. Then Mr. Penny came over. Boy, he said, I want to show you something. And he took a box about the same size and went around it with paper and let it overlap. Maybe a quarter of an inch. Then he went around it with twine one time like this and one time like that. And he tied it. And he said, boys, you know, we don't make a dime out of the merchandise we sell. We only make our profit out of the paper and string we save. This idea of watching your cost 24, 7, of making sure you're ruthlessly efficient is an idea that Sam Walden holds on to for the rest of his life. There is a lot of things in Sam's autobiography that I absolutely love that he said. And this is one of my favorite things that he said in the autobiography that I think relates to the story that we're learning right now. He says you can make a lot of different mistakes and still recover if you run an efficient operation or you can be brilliant and still go out of business if you're too inefficient. So that is the second thing he learned from his time at JC Penny. Here's the third. His direct manager, this guy named Duncan, he said he was a fantastic trainer. He used to invite us to his house every Sunday to play ping pong and to eat and talk. We talk about business, of course. You could learn a lot. He was one of the managers who had a 25% bonus contract. Again, another idea, Sam is directly going to steal at the very beginning of Walmart. He sets up all his managers and gives him 25% of the profits of the store. And remember, I said that at this time, Sam is making $85 a month. His manager shows him the 25% bonus check. He was for $65,000. This is Sam's response. He waved that around and that made us run faster and work harder. Sam Walton's time working at JC Penny and applying what he learned there would eventually put a few billion dollars into his own cash register. So I want to get into where Sam buys his first store where he gets the money from. He is 27 years old. He marries a woman from Oklahoma named Helen. They both have this desire. They're small town people. They're looking around where they're going to live and where they're going to live. They're going to try to buy a Ben Franklin store. So they're called Ben Franklin five and dimes. The way I would think about this now is like the modern day equivalent would be like the dollar store. The reason they were called five and dimes because most of the things that you buy there are, you know, you can get for a nickel or a dime. And so Sam and Helen are going around looking for a small town where they can raise their kids and Sam could have his store. This is the very beginning of his retail empire. Sam is 27 years old. And so they stumble upon this little town in Arkansas called Newport. There is a Ben Franklin franchise. Now keep in mind at the very beginning for like 20 years of his life. Sam Walton is a franchisee of a much larger company and we'll get there in a little bit, but it's crazy. He tried to give the idea for Walmart to Ben Franklin to the big corporation. They laughed him out of the room. And so 27 year old Sam finds the store. The town. There's 4,000 people that live in Newport. Just say tiny, tiny town that he can buy the Ben Franklin franchise. It's going to cost him $25,000. He does not have $25,000. So his father-in-law is going to be very important in their lives, which I'll get to later. His father-in-law is very successful. He's a lawyer, a rancher, a banker. And so he loans Sam Walton the $25,000 needed to buy the Ben Franklin franchise. And at this time, Sam's plan is very simple. He's like, well, I'm just going to take the obsession with customer satisfaction that JC Penny had. And I'm just going to apply it to my own little five-in-dime store. And so he's trying to figure out ways to like, drum up business. And this is the first sign of something that Sam's showing. He's like, very much like a PT Barnum. He's got the charisma of a Southern preacher. And so he's constantly experimenting with these less conventional ways to attract more customers into the store. And you wouldn't believe how some of these like really simple ideas were so effective. So he bought, he spent a bunch of money on an ice cream machine. People are like, what the hell are you doing? This is like a crazy idea. And he'd put it out in front of his store. And on the weekends, families and all the farmers and all the people in this rural area, they would mob his ice cream machine. And then some of them would come into the store and then turn into customers. And then he'd obsess over their customer satisfaction. So then he'd make sure they return. And then if they return, they're going to tell the people. And so five and a half years from now, when he loses this store, it is by far the most successful. I think he's tied for first in all the Ben Franklin franchises, if I'm not mistaken. So he's like, oh, the ice cream work, what else can I do? Then he buys a popcorn machine. Does the same thing puts out the popcorn. Same exact thing happens. He's like, oh, there's different ways to draw attention to the store than just by saying, hey, you know, 50% offered by one, get one free. He's finding another way to attract customers. And even if only converts a small percentage of the people that buy ice cream, the people buy the popcorn, it's still a great return on the investment for buying a popcorn machine and ice cream machine. And that's something that Sam's going to repeat. He really felt one of his best advantages was consistent around the clock customer satisfaction. It says the most important discovery, Sam Walden made a new port was that there was a charm and satisfaction in retailing that he had not fully expected. He was crazy about selling and about satisfying customers. So customer satisfaction, satisfying customers repeated over and over again throughout the book. The way I would think about this is that Sam's satisfying customers is Jeff Bezos' obsessed over customers. That's the same exact idea. You and I have talked about this many times in the past. If you read about the early days, Amazon Jeff Bezos is going around handing out highlighted copies of Sam's autobiography for the early employees at Amazon. The life and career of Sam Walden had a huge influence over how Jeff Bezos built Amazon in the early days. And so Sam Walden's Ben Franklin store was a smashing success. And then we're going to see something that happens over and over again that opportunity is a strange beast. It frequently appears after a loss. He's running this thing for five and a half years. He gets sales up to 225,000 a year. No other store in Newport was performing like this. And that catches the eye of his landlord. And so this, I consider one of the most important decisions of his entire life. Because at 32 years old, Sam Walden is going to lose everything and be forced to start over again. And it is because of an inexperienced kind of rookie mistake. When he bought the store, he didn't read the lease close enough and he did not have the option to renew. And so Sam is meeting with his attorney and his attorney is telling him what's taking place. It's no good. I hope to guide the next time you take over at least somebody you check to make certain. It contains a proper renewal clause. They're not going to let you keep the store. The plane chute is they want to run the Ben Franklin in that building. You've shown the whole town what a money maker can be. His attorney watched the color drain out of Sam's face. It looks like you're finished. The attorney said the lawyer. This is one of my favorite parts of this entire book. The lawyer saw Sam clenching and unclenching his fist, staring at his hands. And then he straightened right up. No, he said, I'm not whipped. I found Newport and I found the store and I can find another good town and another Ben Franklin just wait and see. And so think about that. You're Sam Walden, you're 32 years old. You have wife, several kids and you just spent five and a half years building up a store that was a phenomenal success and somebody took it from you from your own mistake. And Sam wasn't out there blaming other people. And I love his response. He's like, I'm not, you know, I'm not, we have to not feel sorry for myself. That's fine. I made a mistake. I won't make that mistake again, which we'll get to in a minute. And I'll build up again from scratch. And so this is when he finds Ben Villarkins all because he's driving around. He's looking again, running the same political. When he goes to the small town, let me try to buy a Ben Franklin franchise from somebody who wants to sell. He finds one in Benville and he doesn't make the same mistake. So what he does is like, okay, I will buy this store from you. It's too small. So I also need to get the barbershop next door. Sam insists on buying the building. And then next door, he's like, well, this store is too small. We're not going to make any money. I got to knock down this wall. And so he finds that the barbershop next door is actually not for sale. And so he's like, I will lease that, but I need a 99 year lease. You won't sell to me. That's fine. Then I need a lease that lives longer than I do. Now the lease, the barbershop is owned by two widows. They say the first time he comes to him, they say no. The second time, he says, they say no. The third time, they say no. The fourth time, they say no. The fifth time, they say no. The sixth time, it took six tries. And you'll see he does this exact same playbook when he's recruiting people. In some cases, he will recruit the same person and they'll tell him no for a decade. This guy is relentless. But finally, the sixth time, they finally agree to this outrageous 99 year lease. And at the same time, he suffers a devastating personal tragedy. His mom dies unexpectedly from cancer. She was just 52 years old. She went in for an operation to remove some of the cancer. And then a few days after the operation, she passed away. So think about this. He's 32 years old, right? He used all, he's married with kids like I said earlier. He used all of his money, setting up the new store in Bentonville. Okay, he's got no money. So he's 32, wife, kids, no money. Her mom, who you adore, dies at 52 years old unexpectedly. At the same time, he still has to run his new port store until the end of the year. So he is commuting back and forth. And even though the store is only 250 miles apart, it's like an eight to 10 hour drive because it's through these mountains. And the reason I bring that all up together is because no money, your mom dies, your stretches thin as could be. And yet it is this driving back and forth that leads to one of the most important ideas that he ever finds. Because he starts to think, what the heck? If I cannot move ground faster, right, I will always be relegated just having one store. You already know by now. Sam Walton's not the personality type to be like, oh, I'm just going to run one store for the rest of my life. And so it's during these long drives to the mountain, eight hours, 10 hours each way. He's like, I got to figure out a way to cover faster ground. And then he hears the buzz of an airplane overhead. And the author does a great job of describing this. So I want to read this to you. Sometimes hardship can enlighten and inspire. This was the case for Sam Walton as he put in hours and hours of driving Ozark mountain roads in the winter of 1950. But that's...