 115 degrees and the watermelons began to pop. And then the donkey began to poop all over the sidewalk. And the water melon and the donkey shit ran together all over the parking lot and got inside the store. Like so many people before him and since David Glass was guilty of a snap judgment on this unorthodox merchandiser named Sam Walton. In fact, there's a great description of Sam's personality and part of his success. It's like promotion ability. There's this article in 1989 in Fort Irmaegazine. I'm gonna quote from. And it says, so how, from there, from this like crap, you know, this exploding watermelon donkey crap opening. So how from there did Sam Walton get to be America's most admired retailer? He willed it through sheer force of a complex personality. As the donkey watermelon episode illustrates, he's an old fashioned promoter in the PT Barnum style. But he's more than that. He's a little bit Jimmy Stewart. He's handsome. He's got this all-shock's charm. He's also a little bit Billy Graham. This is what I meant. Billy Graham is his famous preacher. Sam Walton's very much an evangelist. He's a little bit Billy Graham with a charisma and a persuasiveness that heartland folks find harder to resist. And he's more than a bit Henry Ford, a business genius who sees how all parts of the economic puzzle relate to his business. Overlaying everything is that of an old yard rooster who is tough loves a good fight and protects his territory. And so the mistake that glass made is the mistake that most people make. They don't understand that small improvements every day over a long period of time. What that compounding can generate, the thing that I underestimated about Sam is that he has an overriding something in him that causes him to improve every day. That's not difficult when you have something as bad as he had back in Harrison. This is the donkey in the watermelon store. But sometimes you achieve success and say, boy, now I got it like I want it. I can lay back a little and enjoy it. Sam never did that. He has never gotten to the point where he is comfortable with who he is or how we're doing. And this is probably my favorite description of Sam Walton in the book. His tactics prompted people to describe him as a modern day combination of Vince Lombardi who insisted on a solid execution of the basics and General Patton, who said a good plan violently executed now is better than a perfect plan next week. And so once he realizes Walmart is a winning formula, he starts to expand really rapidly. But what you see is at the very beginning, he's just got a simple basic plan, simple basic principles that he executes on. So the first thing is he's obsessed, we've already mentioned it once, just like there's principles for Amazon that could be distilled down to obsess over customers for Walmart, it was just customer satisfaction. He said the essential ingredient is of course customer satisfaction. Hardly a day passed, without Sam reminding an employee, remember Walmart's golden rule. Number one, the customer is always right. Number two, if the customer isn't right, refer to rule number one. And so what he means by customer satisfaction is always exceeding the expectations of the customer. So let's say you buy a pair of shoes, they don't fit, you don't like them. One of the cases you bring them back, Sam would tell his stores, not only should you cheerfully replace the shoes, meaning you should be happy, you should smiling, then you should throw in a pair of socks and stockings for the hassle. He understood the value of a satisfied customer, that customer's gonna come back to Walmart, not next week, not just next week, not just next month. We're humans are habitual. They'll probably be shopping there for decade after decade as long as you don't upset them or let them down. And then as far as expansion, this is pre-computers, which we'll get to just the massive, surprising investment that Walmart made in computers in the 1970s. But before that, he's like, okay, well, I wanna run a bunch, he had like this idea, it's like I need to make sure that all my stores are so close to the distribution center that my trucks can deliver whatever you're missing that same day. He essentially started with the distribution center and then work backwards. And he's like, I don't wanna expand outside of this distribution center. If it takes my truck drivers longer than five or six hours to get to any one store. And so the first handful of Walmart's were in this 300 mile radius of Bentonville, Arkansas. And that's really what it was, his faith in this adherence to this small handful of principles that he refused to deviate from. He talks about this later. I had no vision of the scope of what I would start, but I always had confidence that as long as we did our work well and we were good to our customers, there would be no limit to us. And for this fact alone is why reading these biographies in these early company stories are so important because it talks about like how, there's a lot of rough edges in these Walmart stores, the eighth Walmart ever, they put it in this old, it used to be a Coca-Cola, a bottling plant. And so it still wasn't all the way converted. And so you had like all these pipes sticking up out of the floor everywhere. There was no air conditioning in that entire building. So what's the solution? Okay, we don't have AC, we can't put it in before we open. We'll just get 28 window fans. And then we'll take care of the AC problem later. And there's a line that describes what this was like in the very early days of what's gonna become a very valuable company. It says it was still largely a seat of the pants instinct of Sam Walton that guided this Walmart expansion. Again, at the beginning, there's gonna be a lot of rough edges and half working things and not a lot of process. The way I think about the early days of Walmart is the exact way I think about the early days of Disneyland with Walt Disney. There's a great line in that book. I just covered the history of Walt Disney. If you haven't listened to it, it's episode 347, how Walt Disney built his greatest creation, which he considered his greatest creation to be Disneyland. And one of the people working with Walt was describing this time. Says you asked a question, what was our process like? I kind of laughed because process is an organized way of doing things. I have to remind you, during the Walt Disney period of designing Disneyland, we didn't have processes. We just did the work. Process came later. All of those things, all of these things had never been done before. Walt just gathered up all these people who had never designed a theme park or never designed a Disneyland. So we're on the same boat at one time and we just have to figure out what to do and how to do it on the fly as we go along. And not even discuss plans, timing, or anything. We just worked and Walt just walked around and made suggestions. Same exact idea is happening in the early days of Walmart. And so now Sam realizes, oh, Walmart is the main thing. This is where my entire focus should be on. And so this is where he really, really wants to start putting, he's really thinking about how long, like he did five and a half years with one store in Newport, right? Learning, learning, slowly proving that he knows what he's doing. Then he gets Ben Franklin, another Ben Franklin story. Then, you know, a handful, I think, in what 11 years he does 13 more stores. Watch how he's the weird thing I'm trying to describe to you. He's like, he's simultaneously impatient and has an abundance of patience, if that makes any sense. So it takes a while to make sure he knows what he's doing and it's actually gonna work. But once he knows it's going to work, he puts his foot all the way on the gas pedal. And so up until this point, he's got one big problem. He is eyeballs deep in debt. It's like causing him anxiety, stress. He's been barring and financing the expansion of Walmart. He gets loans from banks and loans from insurance companies and he's dying for a permanent solution. And he only has one idea for a permanent solution. He's like, we have to IPO. We have to tap the public markets. And so he's gonna meet these local Arkansas entrepreneurs. They're called the Stephen Brothers. They're gonna team up with another Wall Street firm that is successful in selling the stock. I'm gonna get there in one second because it's kind of nuts at how spookily accurate a bunch of Sam Walton's predictions are. But I just love, they give a short background in the book on the Stephen Brothers who are very helpful in getting this IPO done. I'm gonna skip over all that. I just love the advice because they were like, poor Arkansas boys too. And they went up being, they hit the Forbes 400 list too for different reasons. But I love the advice that their dad told them when they were grown up and like, raw Arkansas, he says, he used to tell sons, don't be ashamed of your poverty and don't be proud of it. Just get rid of it as quickly as you can. And his sons made good on that advice. But I wanna talk about how nuts it is that Sam's, he was just dead on on a lot of sales growth. So he's doing this pitch to potential investors. And they're like, okay, your sales volume right now is around $20 million a year. And Sam's like, yep sir, our business is really growing. This year we did 21 million, 21.3 million. That's quite a jump because the year before we only did 12.6 million. And he says, our calculation is that in the next five years, our five year projection from now that in 1975 our sales will be 230 million. And so the other side of the table is like decidedly skeptical, like this guy's nuts. And here's the punch line. Sam Walton, however, was right on target. Total sales for 1975 came to $236 million. So in 1969, when he was done with that, he was at 21.3, he's like, we're gonna hit 230 million five years from now. And he came in at 236. And then I wanna point out a part of Sam's personality. This is also something he shares in common with Jeff Bezos. He's very polite. He has a country charm, but he drives. The way he pushes his top executives, he pushes them unbelievably hard. It's really fascinating. The difference between the way he treats his like frontline workers, who he spends a lot of time with, pays attention to them, makes them feel special, makes sure they're doing their good job. But like he doesn't push them, like he pushes his top executives. And so it says Sam had seen others resign or get fired because of the rigors of working in a pressure cooker for a boss that some executives called that old slave driver. That's his internal nickname. There's a line from one of Jeff Bezos's, biographies that's very similar. It says if you're not good, Jeff will chew you up and spit you out. And if you are good, he will jump on your back and ride you into the ground. So they both hold their top executives to an unbelievable rigorous standard of excellence. The way I think about Sam's affable country boy personality with what's really inside, when I read a biography on a young Bill Gates, excellent book if you haven't read it yet. It's called Hard Drive, the Making of the Microsoft Empire, covers the first 35 years of Bill Gates life. You realize that a young Bill Gates was just gangus con in a Mr. Rogers costume. Something similar is going on here with Sam, says he also claims that the public conception of Sam is a good old country boy wearing a self velvet glove. This is the fact that there's an iron fist within that glove. The boss himself can't really agree. I guess I can get a little tough if I see things I don't like. Sam stressed that he knew his business from top to bottom. I used to do it all, sweep the floor, keep the books by the merchandise. One of my assets is my willingness to try something new and to change. That is a concept that we carry out throughout the company. We have a low resistance to change. We call it our RC factor. And so there's many examples in the book of what I just referenced, the fact that as hard as he is on his executives, he's just as supportive of his front line workers and genuinely cares about them. There's a bunch of examples here. One he would flag down one of his own 18 wheelers and climb into the cab to ride 100 miles with a driver to gain firsthand experience that might improve Walmart transportation. He would get up at 2.30 in the morning by a box of donuts and take him over to his warehouse loading dock where he solicited ideas to upgrade their effort. If the docker said they needed two additional shower stalls, they immediately got them. This is all connected to something that Sam Walton would repeat. Remember, repetition is persuasive. So he repeats over and over and throughout this book, but also in internal communications that he believed in management by walking around. When Sam discusses his management style, he's dead serious about identifying it as MbWA, management by walking around. There's this company newsletter called Walmart World that would go out every month. And it says this adherence, this reference, this repetition of the importance of management by walking around for Sam and for everybody in the company, it rarely not appear in an issue. Think about how crazy it is. Every month, he's just repeating the same thing, the importance of this same thing over and over and over and over again. These are all great ideas and smart things that Sam Walton does. Let's get back to another mistake. He winds up retiring. He recruits this guy named Ron Mayer who he thought of like this boy genius. And so I will read to you my note, which gives an overview of what's about to take place here. Stepping aside of the company you spend your whole life building because someone else's in a rush does not seem wise. And so Sam is about to turn 57 and Ron Mayer is putting pressure on him, saying hey, I don't want to just, I want to run my whole company. Like I want to be CEO of Walmart and if I can't do that here, then I'll have to do it somewhere else. And so it says, as he approaches 57th birthday, Sam Walton was reluctantly trying to change his lifestyle completely by surrendering the day-to-day command of his Walmart empire. Now Sam is going to find this impossible to do. And I'll describe, since he retired and never retired, it's a weird thing. And so he's having this conversation with his wife and his op executives. He says, I'm going to lose Ron if I don't step aside and I don't want to lose him. He's a very talented guy. And so it was official. Sam had retired. Ron was a new chairman and CEO of Walmart. It is the most uncharacteristic Sam Walton kind of thing that Sam Walton ever did. So essentially he retires, but he's still working. His role was now supposed to be unofficial, but he couldn't keep his hands off. When he saw something, anything, he didn't think was right. He just stepped and incorrect it on the spot. That is the way of always been. I guess I was getting in the way of Ron's authority. And the problem is the numbers, the sales and profits under Ron Mayer. He's doing a magnificent job, but Sam just has to control the company. It bothered Sam's conscious that he had personally and made a mistake. He discovered that he really wasn't ready to retire, that he missed his old job. And so he comes to this fork in the road. He's like, okay, this obviously isn't working. You either have to get back into it, take back your job, or you have to leave completely. And so when he tells Ron, hey, I'm coming back over, I'd love to keep you. Of course, Ron's gonna do what most people would do. He's like, you know, I can't accept that. I'm not gonna stand for a demotion. He winds up leaving the company. So Sam takes back over control of the company. He does exactly what he goes back to doing, exactly what he was doing. And that's, he's always recruiting. Now, he's not only to lose Ron Mayer. He lost a bunch of like Ron Mayer's with tenants. He lost, you know, a big chunk of his executive staff. So he's gotta go back and recruit. And he does what he does over and over again. He would pitch the same person over and over and over again. So someone said Sam Walton used up men the way he threw wood into his fireplace. Just like the logs, they blazed up with a fury, generated powerful and beautifully efficient flames. And after a time, died down into cold ashes. It was necessary for him always to be looking for good men and talent to replenish his stockpile. He fell back on old habits and started to recruit again. Those who had scornfully turned him down before. One of these people was going to be David Glass, the eventual CEO, 10, 12, maybe 15 years into the future where we're in the story. He's eventually going to become CEO and rather successful CEO of Walmart. And David didn't go into this job, you know, ignorant or blindly. He knew he says he was under no misconceptions. He could expect to work harder and put in more hours than ever before in his life. And now we get to one of the most mind-blowing things that happens in the book, at least mind-blowing to me. Remember, he was talking about the fact that he's not resistant to change. Now, he has his principles, he's not going to deviate from, but he always wants the best ideas. And he repeats over and over again. You know, he says R.C. is that formula, resistance to change. Like we want to low resistance to change. We're willing to change. It's a trademark of like the Walmart culture, the Walmart philosophy. Every day is a different situation in the retail business. We have to be flexible. At least in things that Sam Walton would repeat. Now, this is insane. What they do here, the size of the investment. So at first, you know, this is in 1979, okay. At first, his team is top executives, people he trusts are like, we need computers, we need help. The business is like, it's too unwieldy. We don't, we need more organized data. We able to make better decisions. And at first, Sam thought computers were just overhead. But then he listened and he learned and he changed his mind and more important that and he invested. He put his money where his mouth was. Finally, his lieutenants educated and convinced Sam and Walmart plucked down $500 million for a modern communications computer system. And when they say computers at this time of history, he's like giant IBM mainframes. And so now all the Walmart stores, the warehouses and the distribution centers are able to communicate in real time. By 1979, the stores and warehouses could communicate around the clock with headquarters. So keep in mind, inside of every single store, there's at least 36 departments in each store. And they're all selling different things. So this computer system is now telling them daily sales from not only every store, but every single department inside of every store. They tell them what the bank deposit for that day is. They would estimate sales figures. They would flag reports on like hot selling items that they may need to either order more and deliver more to the stores. You'd have up to date warehouse inventory and it just goes on and on and on. So Sam is writing the annual report of Walmart in 1979 and he summarizes this perfectly. He says the financial savings and the number of personnel hours saved daily by using the computer center are incalculable, even by the computer. So it's one thing to say, yeah, we're willing to change. We want the best ideas. Sam is 61 years old when he makes this decision. 61 years old, investing $500 million, and half a billion dollars in 1979 dollars. That's one of the most remarkable things in the entire book. And this just proves his dedication. Like I want, he talked about investing in technology as a huge advantage that he had over other discunders too. But he's putting his money and his actions behind this, where his mouth is. When he said, you know, he was saying with his mouth, no, we have a low resistance to change. We want the best ideas. And then it's one thing to say that's a completely different thing to match up his actions in this half a billion dollar investment. That's nuts to me. Another surprising thing that I don't think I remembered, you know, I've read this book before, I've read Sam Walton's autobiography twice, I've reread my highlights and notes from those books. I don't even know dozens of times. And I had forgot. So once he realized, oh, one more thing, he's like, man, this thing's grown too slowly. And it's hilarious because this is what he considers slow growth. And I'll tell you how he fixes this. So from 1974 to 1977, he goes from 78 Walmarts to 153. So let's call that double. And he goes from annual sales of 167 million to 478 million. And he's like, this is too slow. So what he does next is something I had forgotten. He actually accelerates store growth by acquiring entire retail chains and then converting them to Walmarts. Now that he's a public company, now he's got access for the first time in his ever. He's got access to way more resources. He's not constrained by money anymore. And so he buys a chain of 16 discount stores conversant to Walmarts. Then he buys another chain of 104 stores conversant to Walmarts. He's showing that he can master both growth internally and by acquisition. So there's just a few more ideas that I want to tell you about two main ones. But here's another interesting one. That reference or effect that Sam is constantly collecting information from the front lines, hates people sitting in the office, like you need to get in stores and you need to go all across the country. But as Walmart grows, they have this entire fleet of planes. And so they use the planes every single day to be on site where the work is actually happening. But his friend's daughter has a bad experience at Walmart. And she actually calls her dad, who just happens to be with Sam at the time. And it was fascinating. And so we're hearing this story. He says, my daughter bought a pair of shorts for her father-in-law. They turned out in that three to right size. So she goes back. And they didn't have the right size, but the manager is refusing to give.